


AtaraxiA

A Tabletop Roleplaying Game
 
 
 
Table of Contents

Welcome to The Game	3
Dice Mechanics	4
Root Dice	4
Dice Progression	4
Bonus Dice	4
Advantage & Disadvantage	4
Bonus Damage &	4
Damage Reduction	4
Character	5
Concept	5
Lifepaths	5
Stats	5
Will	5
Intellect	5
Strength	5
Fortitude	5
Agility	5
Endurance	5
Attributes	6
Morale	6
Vitality	6
Stamina	6
Defeat	6
Rests	6
Recovery	6
Skills	7
Lifepath Skills	7
Expertise	7
Call-On Skills & Help	7
Magic Skills	7
Learning New Skills	7
Skill Progression	7
Personality	7
Beliefs	7
Instincts	8
Traits	8
Connections	8
Inspiration	8
Gear, Equipment & Property	8
Lifepaths	9
Setting	9
Society	9
Historical Period	9
Humanity	9
The Fantastical	9
Navigation	10
Total Lifepaths	10
Born Lifepath	10
Additional Lifepaths	10
Elements	10
Lifepath Title	10
Time	10
Resources	10
Traits	10
Skills	10
Leads	10
Gear & Equipment	11
Items	11
Inventory	11
Coins	11
Degradation	11
Magic Items	11
Tools & Gear	11
Light	11
Bright Light	12
Dim Light	12
Darkness	12
Clothing	12
Lodging	12
Food & Drink	12
Substances	12
Luxury Items	12
Weapons	12
Armor	12
Property & Services	15
Loans & Investments	15
Livestock	16
Hirelings	16
Transportation	16
Ships	16
Real Estate	16
Conflict	17
Intent	17
Task	17
Test	17
Resolution	17
General Rules	17
Damage	17
Group Conflict	17
Rulings	17
Test Variations	18
Free Test	18
Variable Test	18
Static Test	18
Opposed Test	18
Cascading Test	18
Advanced Rules	18
Attack	18
Defend	18
Maneuver	18
Challenge Rating	19
Easy Tests	19
Average Tests	19
Difficult Tests	19
Gameplay Loop	20
I. Exposition	20
II. Rising Action	20
III. Climax	20
IV. Falling Action	20
V. Resolution	20
Death	20
Might	21
Martial Skills	21
Armed	21
Unarmed	21
Range	21
Missile	21
Extended	21
Striking	21
Clinching	21
Grappling	21
Movement	22
Mounted Combat	22
Environment	22
Cover & Position	22
Visibility	22
Weapons	22
Armor	22
Magic	23
Magical Skills	23
Learning Spells	23
Magical Words	23
Change	23
Substance	23
Quantity	23
Location	24
Duration	24
Spell Focuses	24
Magic Items	24
Narrative	24
Warping	24
Divinity	25
Limitations	25
Miracles	26
Divine Intervention	26
Martyrdom	26
The World	27
Generation	27
Drawing Cards	27
Terrain	27
Weather	27
Scene Reading	27
Suit	28
Card Meaning	28
Exploration	28
Time	28
Travel	28
Terrain	29
Ecology	29
Wildlife	29
Rivers	29
Oceans	29
Civilization	29
Settlements	29
Culture	29
Weather	29
Seasons	29
Weather	30
Minor Arcana	31
Wands	32
Cups	33
Swords	34
Pentacles	35
Major Arcana	36
Indices	40
Lifepaths	40
Skills	41
Traits	43
Example Character Sheets	48
Support	61
Copyright	61

Thanks
Ataraxia receives its name from the Greek term, ἀταραξία, which is generally translated as "imperturbability" or "tranquility". This RPG was made possible due to the encouragement, feedback, and assistance of my loving wife, friends, family, and the RPG community. I hope that it brings the same kind of life to your group of friends as it has for ours.
Version 2.0.1 – October 22nd 2022
MIT - Copyright 2022:
Ataraxia – A Tabletop Roleplaying Game
You are free to share and adapt this material for any purpose, including commercially, as long as you give attribution. 
Welcome to The Game
Ataraxia is a tabletop role-playing game developed in the legacy of Dungeons & Dragons. This game centers around player created and controlled characters (PCs) that interact with the world through dice rolls mediated by a Game Master (GM.) 
These rules enable emergent complexity from simple core mechanics, while minimizing coercion and bookkeeping. This is accomplished by integrating the narrative, simulation, and gameplay aspects of tabletop roleplaying games.
Additional, modular mechanics allow each group to tailor their experience. Collaborative creativity, procedural world generation, and democratic rulings yield a light-to-run but rich-to-play game.  
Dice Mechanics. All rolls use at least one standard six sided die (1d6). Each die roll reduces to either a Success or Failure for rolls of 4/5/6 and 1/2/3, respectively. Multiple dice can often be utilized to increase the chances of success. All characters’ Stat and Skill values are also denominated in total dice.
Conflict Cycle. Each gameplay action is a conflict between two or more competing narratives where the winner determines the ultimate outcome.
Character Creation. Characters are created using a branching Lifepath system, which endows them with Skills, Traits, Connections, and Resources. Every character starts the game by being born into a social class and then follow available leads to determine their life’s course up to the present.
Stats. Characters possess six Stats: Will, Intellect, Strength, Fortitude, Agility, and Endurance. They can be used in Tests of raw ability and advance through usage.
Attributes. When summed, a character’s Stats produce their Morale, Vitality, and Stamina values, each of which serves as an independent health pool that can be challenged during the course of play.
Skills. Skills serve as the primary means for characters to interact with the world for tasks that require more than just raw ability. New Skills can be organically acquired and Skills advance through use.
Personality. Characters possess defining Beliefs, Traits, Instincts, and Connections which motivate action and produce conflict. Gameplay utilizes character personality through bonuses and integration with Conflict cycle rolls.
Gear & Equipment. Items grant Advantage by adding a point of success on all Tests to which they are applied; however, characters have limited Inventory slots determined by the sum of all their Attributes.
Might. The combat system focuses on the effective weapon range between two or more combatants and the struggle for a superior position in the fight.
Magic. Spells are constructed by combining arcane words to create many unique and powerful effects.
Divinity. The Divine exists beyond the known limits of Magic, and yet Miracles can alter the fabric of reality and change The World.
The World. Tarot cards are used alongside lookup tables to procedurally generate terrain, weather, and dramatic scenes with meaningful impact.  
Dice Mechanics
Ataraxia uses common six-sided dice (d6), which players roll to determine the outcome of uncertain events within the game. The final result of an uncertain event depends upon the total number of successes the player rolls. 
Successes: Rolling a 4, 5, or 6 results in a Success.
Failures: Rolling a 1, 2, or 3 results in a Failure.
In a “Test,” players compare the total quantity of successes rolled against a target value to determine the final outcome of an uncertain event. A Test’s difficulty increases with the target value required to pass the Test.
Root Dice
Root Dice serve as the basis for all Tests in the game and have an associated integer rank corresponding to the number of dice they utilize. Stats, Skills, and Connection dice are all Root Dice.
Dice Progression
Root Dice advance by one rank when the player rolls the maximum number of successes possible. For example, if a player rolls three successes using a third rank Hunting Skill, the Hunting Skill increases to fourth rank. Help Dice, Advantage, and Disadvantage do not affect Root Dice progression.
Bonus Dice
Occasionally, Bonus Dice may be added to a roll. Successes with these dice count towards advancing Root Dice; however, failures do not impact dice progression. Subtypes of Bonus Dice include Inspiration Dice and Exploding Dice.
Inspiration Dice: These dice can be applied at any time to any roll and persist across sessions. 
Exploding Dice: When a player rolls a ‘6’ while utilizing a magical Skill or item—regardless of whether the Skill or item inherently contains or has been imbued with magic—the player can roll another die. If this Bonus Die also results in a ‘6’, another die can be rolled, ad infinitum. 
Advantage & Disadvantage 
Special circumstances may provide Advantage or Disadvantage on a roll. If a player accrues one or more counts of both Advantage and Disadvantage, the total count of Advantages less the total count of Disadvantages determines the final adjustment. Items used to assist in passing a Test inherently grant one point of Advantage. Players may propose Advantage or Disadvantage in any given circumstance; however, they must justify why that would be the case and the GM or the party must agree with their reasoning.
Advantage: Advantage adds one success to the final roll total.
Disadvantage: Disadvantage subtracts one success from the final roll total.
Bonus Damage &
Damage Reduction
Certain items or conditions may grant Bonus Damage (DMG) or Damage Reduction (DR). DMG deals additional damage only after a successful Test roll; similarly, DR can be spent to absorb incoming damage after a Test is resolved. If DR reduces incoming damage to zero, the Test resolves to a Null Result, i.e. a tie.  
Character 
Concept
Dynamic and deep gameplay emerges from characters’ development during their adventures. Character concepts start simple and unrealized, but become complex and incarnate across time. A character’s personality, behavior, and motivation are discovered and refined throughout gameplay, but begin with a primary character concept.
Lifepaths
A Lifepath constitutes an epoch in a character’s life, usually occurring over several years, that endows the character with Skills, Traits, Connections, Resources, and a unique history. Players begin creating their characters by selecting the Lifepaths leading up to the point at which gameplay starts.
Stats
Stats constitute a character’s core physical and mental ability across six categories. Stats determine a character’s Attribute health pools and inventory space, and may also be Tested in the Conflict cycle. 
To determine a character’s Stats, players first roll 6d6. One rolled value is then assigned to one Stat at the player’s discretion. Alternatively, players may opt for a “point-buy” system, in which they select a value between one and six for each of their characters’ Stats out of a sum of 20 points. Stats are considered Root Dice and progress through use. Additionally, Stats act as a “call-on” pool up to the maximum rank of the Stat.

Will 
Will represents a character’s mental tenacity, empathy, focus, and social intelligence. It serves as both a mental and a social Stat used in Tests involving character, determination, charm, etc.
Intellect
Intellect represents a character’s ability to process new information, retain knowledge, and assess complex novel situations. It is used in Tests involving memory, calculation, insight, pattern recognition, etc.
Strength
Strength represents a character’s physical power and their capability to exert force in the world. It is used in Tests involving weight lifting, contests of strength, forcing past obstacles, etc.
Fortitude
Fortitude represents a character’s physical mettle, durability, and their ability to withstand trauma or wounds. Fortitude is used in Tests involving resisting poison or pain, surviving a blizzard, etc.
Agility 
Agility represents a character’s physical coordination, fine motor control, as well as their ability to deftly alter momentum. Agility is used in Tests involving reflex, balance, precision, etc.
Endurance
Endurance represents how fast a character can move and how long they can sustain that movement. Endurance is used in Tests involving chases, races, prolonged effort, etc.
Attributes
Attributes constitute the three health pools challenged during gameplay and are calculated as the sum of two character Stat values. Failing a Test may damage one of a character’s Attributes. Characters acquire a Trait if an Attribute is reduced to zero; however, characters cannot die unless the player consents to their character’s death. 
Resting allows for a character to recover from damage taken to their Attributes, but doing so requires certain conditions to be met. Imbibing Substances can temporarily boost Attributes or aid in recovery rolls.
Morale
Morale measures a character’s mental state. Stressful situations can impact a character’s psyche, which manifests as damage to their Morale. These situations range from loss of a spirited debate to witnessing the true form of an eldritch abomination from beyond the veil. 
Vitality
Vitality measures a character’s ability to overcome pain and maintain physical health while wounded. Physical injury damages a character’s Vitality. An arrow to the knee, falling from a ledge, and dragon fire would all damage a character’s Vitality.
Stamina
Stamina measures a character’s ability to carry on when weary, react quickly to danger, and outrun threats. Actions that result in exhaustion or fatigue damage a character’s Stamina, such as running a marathon, swimming in turbulent water, and being exposed to the elements.
Defeat
Defeat occurs upon reduction of one or more Attributes to zero. Once defeated, characters lose the ability to lead a Test until their Attribute(s) have recovered. Recovery also conveys a Trait, which reflects the circumstances of the Defeat. The GM typically determines these Traits, guided by players’ suggestions.
Character death is voluntary, as such players must consent to their characters’ deaths. If a player believes that an event should result in their character’s death, they must consult with the GM on the specifics and how it impacts the story. 
Alternate rules for a more lethal style of play can be found under the Conflict - Death section.
Rests
Rests offer characters the opportunity to replenish lost Attribute health pools. If an Attribute has been reduced to zero during gameplay, a free recovery dice is granted if the requirements to rest and recover that Attribute have been met.
Recovery
Morale is decreased by stress, and recovers with sleep. Characters require sheltered sleep to enable recovery. A day without sheltered sleep decreases Morale by one point.
Vitality is decreased by injury, and recovers with food. Characters require one ration of food to enable recovery. A day without food decreases Vitality by one point.
Stamina is decreased by fatigue, and recovers with water. Characters require one ration of water to enable recovery. A day without water decreases Stamina by one point.
Skills
Skills constitute specialized knowledge, experience, or techniques known by the character and allow them to pursue their Beliefs in the world. Examples of Skills include: Bargaining, Knives, Carpentry, Falsehood, Brawling, Faith, Sorcery, Archaeology, and Ugly Truth.
Lifepath Skills
Each lifepath conveys Skills, which characters learn during their time on that path. The initial rank of each Skill gained through the lifepath system is determined by totaling the number of times that Skill is acquired across all of the character’s lifepaths. For example, a character that had three lifepaths with the ‘Sword’ Skill would start the game with a third-rank Root Die for the “Sword’ Skill.
Expertise
Expertise constitutes knowledge gained through a character’s lifepaths that can be called upon to provide information about the world, either through the GM or by player invention. Each lifepath has a corresponding Expertise that starts at first rank and advances through use.
Call-On Skills & Help
Players can add to their Root Dice roll in a Test by calling on related Skills or receiving Help from an ally with related Skills. Each Call-On Skill or Help source adds one additional die to the Test roll without limit, so long as each addition can be explained and justified. 
Magic Skills
Magical Skills and Skills utilizing a magical item use the exploding dice rules outlined in the Bonus Dice section. 
Learning New Skills
New Skills can be learned during play. Unknown Skills start at an effective zeroth-rank, with one bonus die granted for Tests. To learn a previously unknown Skill, the bonus die roll must result in a Success. At this point, the Skill is learned and advances to a first-rank Root Die.
Skill Progression
Skills advance using Dice Progression rules. If Call-On Skill Dice support the Root Dice roll in a Test, advancement of the Skill is still possible; however, each new die must also result in a Success. Help dice do not count towards or against advancement.
Personality
Characters’ Beliefs, Instincts, Traits, and Connections reflect their unique identities, motivations, and histories. Players are encouraged to incorporate these aspects into their characters’ gameplay Actions. As characters face victories and defeats, their personality develops across time. 
Beliefs
Beliefs constitute the core principles and ideas that motivate both the player and the character. These take the form of short philosophical, ethical, or actionable statements that convey topics of interest or potential scenarios for incorporation into the narrative. By challenging their characters’ Beliefs during gameplay, players help direct a campaign’s story and tone. Challenging a Belief not only results in its loss, alteration, or reaffirmation, but also awards the character with Inspiration proportional to the significance of the Belief challenged. 
In order to be effectively challenged, Beliefs must first be well articulated and communicated. Examples include:
	Through faith in God, Man can attain salvation and eternal life.
	Do not hurt others in ways that you yourself would find hurtful.
	I must avenge the murder of my father.
Instincts 
Instincts constitute the character’s impulses, inclinations, and reactions. They are based on the past experiences and have a practical function. Instincts can be conceived of as logical “if/then” or “always/never” statements for the character’s behavior, e.g. “If surprised, then I draw my sword.” Players can hedge against future circumstances at any time by specifying an Instinct, but new Instincts cannot be specified in the same moment that the trigger condition occurs.
Traits 
Traits constitute quirks and odd abilities that characters acquire throughout the course of their life. During character creation, players select a number of Traits equal to their characters’ lifepaths, e.g., a character with five lifepaths would have five Traits. 
Traits can also be acquired narratively or through gameplay. Whenever an Attribute drops to zero or a Magic check results in a total failure, the instigating character acquires a Trait related to the circumstances of their actions. These Traits are not inherently positive or negative, and can be called on to grant Advantage or Disadvantage in relevant situations. Once a Trait has been acquired it can be removed through gameplay Actions and GM/group consensus. 
Connections
Connections constitute relationships that characters establish throughout their lifepaths and the course of play. Connections can be utilized in broad contexts, ranging from asking a favor of a friend to imploring for political action from a local guild. Connections are considered Root Dice and advance using Dice Progression rules. During character creation, each Connection starts at first rank and advances by one rank for each related lifepath.
Inspiration
Actions that utilize or challenge a character’s Beliefs, Instincts, Traits, or Connections provide Inspiration Dice. Negative effects, consequences, and complications provide more Inspiration Dice than resolutions. Inspiration can be awarded at any time by either the GM or unanimous player consensus. Inspiration can be spent to grant Boons.
Boon	Cost
Inspiration bonus dice	1
Gift one Inspiration dice	2
Gain a Trait	3
Remove a Trait	5
Expand a Root Die success range^ {3,4,5,6}	8
Make a Root Die magical*
(exploding d6s)	12
Gear, Equipment & Property
Gear and equipment contribute to a character’s personality and capabilities. Characters have limited inventory space and must determine which items to transport with them, leaving all others behind. 
 
Lifepaths
Players begin to develop their characters by selecting the lifepaths leading up to the moment at which gameplay starts. Each character is built step-by-step, beginning at their birth and continuing through the epochs of their life. 
Complete lifepath list link:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13eDrdlENhgEpoKKKfYvcWultb81Uxut2qtYSfFra4nc/edit?usp=sharing
Setting
While Ataraxia does not have an explicit setting, the lifepaths and rules imply certain societal structures. Most classes, professions, and occupations of the Middle Ages are represented as lifepaths as an analog to a complete historical society.
Society
Social Structure: Ataraxia is modelled on historical societies and the lifepath system preserves much of their features, including social classes or caste systems; hereditary nobility; military ranks; clergy titles; et al. As such, the lifepaths form an intricate web to be navigated during the course of a character’s life. The station into which a character is born serves only as the starting point from which they move through the rungs of society.
Language: Player-created characters all speak the common tongue (“common”); however, only those trained in reading and writing are considered literate. While most individuals in the World speak common, enclaves, ethnic groups, and the formally educated may also speak foreign languages.
Historical Period
The society and technological baseline assumed by the lifepaths in Ataraxia roughly correspond to sixteenth century Europe, Asia, and Africa. However, some anachronisms intentionally exist to enable compatibility with most fantasy time periods. Lifepaths, skills, or items that conflict with an imagined setting can be removed or explained as technology from a more advanced land far away.
Humanity
To preserve the strangeness and intrigue associated with the World’s most fantastical elements, only human characters can be played. Characters are meant to be real people with families, experiences, and motivations that find themselves challenged by antagonists, society, the environment, and the supernatural.
The Fantastical
Monsters: Fearsome mythical beasts and creatures of whispered legend lurk in the wilderness and the ruins of Man that civilization has forgotten.
Magic: Forbidden practices of dark sorcery, rituals invoking ancient gods, monsters summoned from orthogonal dimensions, sites of untold power, relics bound with eldritch energies; occult orders and esoteric cults harness the arcane powers of magic to alter the fabric of reality.
Mystery: Faeries malevolent and kind, subterranean dwarves separated wholly from the surface, sun-scorched desert djinn, and extraterrestrial phantasms from the stars; while humans most prolifically populate the lands, entities of equal or greater intelligence may exist in The World. 
Navigation
Each lifepath has one or more Leads, which reflect subsequent opportunities for growth and change. New lifepaths are chosen from their predecessors’ list of Leads to build a character’s history.
Total Lifepaths
To determine the total lifepaths taken when building a character, the GM and players can unanimously agree upon a static integer between 2 and 12 for all characters. Alternatively, 2d6 can be rolled for each character to randomly determine the total number of lifepaths. Characters with more lifepaths are generally older and more experienced.
Born Lifepath
Characters begin their journey by being born into a particular heritage, which constitutes their first lifepath during character creation. This lifepath not only reflects the character’s actual birth, but also the social and economic setting in which they spent their childhood.
Additional Lifepaths
Once the “Born” lifepath has been selected, additional lifepaths can be acquired up to the total established before gameplay begins. If the narrative involves significant downtime between adventures, characters may utilize this time to pursue a new lifepath.
Outcast: When choosing a new lifepath, characters may always take any of the Leads from Born Outcast.
Fork: Leads from the previous lifepath may be taken to change course without following the current lifepath’s Leads.
Repeat: Lifepaths may only be repeated once if encountered again as an available Lead.
Elements
Lifepath Title
Each lifepath grants Expertise related to the knowledge gained through it, recorded in shorthand as the lifepath’s Title. Each Expertise Title starts at Root Die rank 1 and advances through usage.
Time
After all lifepaths have been selected, the years spent on each path are totaled to determine the character’s age.
Resources
Characters acquire monetary resources in the form of gold pieces (gp) during the course of their lives. These gold pieces can be used to purchase gear, equipment, services, and property. The value given for each lifepath represents the character’s total savings across that path and not their total earnings. Wages are the daily pay in coin (cp) for any given lifepath. 
Traits
Characters gain one Trait for each lifepath acquired. As characters age, their Traits color their Personalities.
Skills
Characters learn a set of Skills over the duration of each lifepath. Each duplicate Skill encountered in later lifepaths adds one additional rank to that particular Skill. Unwanted Skills can be sacrificed in their entirety for one free Skill point. Only one of these free Skill point may be added per remaining Skill. 
Leads
Leads reflect the set of subsequent lifepaths available from a character’s current lifepath.  
Gear & Equipment
Items
Items convey one point of Advantage when utilized to support a roll. As with Call-On Skills, a reasonable justification must support the item’s applicability. Multiple items can be utilized if each item can be justified.
Inventory
The sum of maximum Morale, Vitality, and Stamina determines total available inventory slots.
Most items consume one inventory slot. Some items, however, are light enough that more than one can fit into a single slot. These items include a (x) marker in the tables below, where x represents the usable item quantity per inventory slot. Analogously, heavy items occupy more than one inventory slot and include a [x] marker, where x corresponds to the quantity of slots required to carry that item. For rough approximations, one slot weighs three pounds.
Characters carrying more items than their inventory slots allow accrue one point of Disadvantage per additional slot over their total inventory.
Coins
Copper coins, or copper pieces (cp), represent the base currency unit. Silver coins (sp) and gold coins (gp) can also be utilized for higher value transactions. One silver coin equals 20 copper coins’ worth, whereas one gold coin equals 1,000 copper coins’ worth. Regardless of type, 50 coins consume one inventory slot. 
For rough approximations, one copper coin has equivalent purchasing power to one U.S. dollar, provided the currency is sound.
Degradation
If a player rolls a total failure while using one or more items, all items become broken and must be repaired before additional use. While not all items can be repaired, repairs generally cost half of an item’s market value.
Magic Items
Magic items constitute rare Gear and Equipment and have been imbued with arcane energy to produce strange and wonderful effects. Such items grant Exploding Dice when utilized, cannot be Degraded, and store a single magical spell.  This spell may be cast at any time, after which the item returns to its original, non-magical state.
Tools & Gear
Tools and Gear constitute devices and implements that accomplish a particular function. Among others, this includes crafting tools, adventuring gear, and household items.
Light
Light sources, which improve visibility by one rank, extend to a given number of characters and extinguish once their fuel source has been consumed. Candles provide light for one character and cannot be moved. Movable torches and lanterns provide light for two and six characters, respectively. Magically-created light sources have no given number of characters to which they extend, and cannot be extinguished naturally.
Bright Light 
Daylight and otherwise well-lit areas have Bright Light. Bright Light does not impact characters’ rolls.
Dim Light 
Moonlit nights and sparsely-lit areas place characters in Dim Light. When in Dim Light, all Rolls incur one point of Disadvantage.
Darkness 
Deep caves and moonless nights plunge characters into Darkness. All Rolls incur two points of Disadvantage.
Clothing
Clothing not only protects characters from the elements, but also displays their social status. Individual clothes cannot be stacked; however, cloaks and furs can be worn to supplement a character’s primary wardrobe. 
Lodging
Inns, taverns, and other local businesses offer the opportunity to recover from stress, injuries, and exhaustion in a safe location for the price of coin. These lodgings, regardless of their opulence or squalor, grant the ability to rest.
Food & Drink
Whether purchasing just enough to subsist in town or stocking up for an arduous journey, food and drink are essential for recovery and survival. Sumptuous food and drink provide no additional bonuses for recovery, but offer a break from stale bread and grog. 
Substances
Imbibing certain substances briefly boosts Attributes or aids in recovery. However, multiple doses cannot be stacked for additional bonuses within any one Rest cycle. 
Active Substances (A): Active substances grant one temporary health point to a corresponding Attribute until the next Rest cycle.
Passive Substances (P): Passive substances give one point of Advantage on recovery checks for a corresponding Attribute.
Luxury Items
Some items, either due to their natural rarity or their difficulty to manufacture, are considered Luxury Items. These items can only be purchased and sold in populous cities or through connected merchants and smugglers.
Weapons
Each weapon has an ideal Range and inflicts Bonus Damage when utilized in a successful Test. Only one weapon can be used at a time; however, weapons can be freely exchanged between Conflict cycles.
For more details, see the Might section.
Armor
Armor offers Damage Reduction. Each set of armor has a maximum amount of damage it can absorb before it becomes Degraded. Only one suit of armor can be worn at a time.
For more details, see the Might section.
Tools & Gear
Item                  Inventory	Cost
Abacus	50
Arrow/Bolt (20)	60
Axe, ice	100
Axe, wood                           	40
Bear trap                              [5]	200
Bedroll	50
Bell, small	20
Bellows	100
Black grease (1)	5
Black powder (10)	50
Blanket, winter                       	20
Block and tackle                  [5]	40
Book                     	200
Bottle, glass	10
Bucket                                    [2]	5
Bullet (20)	100
Caltrops (1)	15
Cards, deck of	10
Chain, 10 ft.                            [2]    	25
Chalk (10)	10
Chisel	20
Compass	250
Cookpot                               [2]	35
Crampons, ice cleat	25
Crowbar                              [2]	15
Dice set, loaded	10
Drill                                        	50
Face paint/makeup (10)	200
Fishing rod & tackle	50
Glass marbles (1)	10
Glue (5)	25
Grappling hook	40
Hammer                                 	20
Horn	40
Hourglass	300
Incense (5)	10
Iron tongs	20
Jar, glass (4)	20
Ladder, 10 ft.                    [6]	200
Lock and key	200
Lock picks 	100
Manacles	40
Metal file	10
Mortar and pestle	35
Musical instrument              [2]	500
Nail (20)	20
Net	30
Parchment (5)	50
Perfume (10)	100
Pickaxe                                 [2]	40
Pulley	10
Quill and ink (10)	25
Rope, 50 ft.	30
Ruler	20
Sack	10
Saw	25
Scale, merchants                      	250
Sewing kit	15
Shovel                                    	25
Soap (20)	5
Spike, iron	10
Stove, portable                      [2]	50
Tar, Pot (1)                           [2]     	10
Tent, 3 man                             [2]	200
Tent, personal                         	75
Twine, 300 ft.	5
Water skin (1)	20
Whistle	10
Light
Candle (10)	10
Flint & Steel	5
Lantern                                  [2]     	250
Lamp Oil (10)	50
Tinderbox (20)	10
Torch (3)	15
Clothing
Merchant clothes	1,000
Noble clothes	10,000
Peasant clothes	100
Wool cloak	200
Royal clothes	25,000
Winter Furs	500
Lodging
Castle	1000/day
Cottage	100/day
Hospital	250/day
Hovel	10/day
Inn	25/day
Villa	500/day
Workshop	100/day
Food & Drink
Ale (2)	10
Animal Feed (5)	10
Bread, 1 loaf  (2)	5
Cheese, 1/2 lb. (2)	30
Chicken, whole (2)	20
Cider, 1 gallon (2) 	5
Cod, whole (3)	50
Dried fruit (2)	30
Grain, 1 bushel (1)	30
Hardtack rations (5)	25
Oats, milled (2)	5
Pork, salted (3)	30
Substances
Alcohol (5)               Morale (A)	75
Cannabis (5)          Vitality (P)	150
Coffee (5)              Stamina (P)	50
Opium (5)                Vitality (A)	500
Psilocybin (5)           Morale (P)	200
Tobacco (5)            Stamina (A)	75
Luxury Items
Astrolabe	3,000
Calculator, mechanical	5,000
Clock, mechanical	10,000
Gems, precious (10)	100,000 
Mirror	2,000
Poison, deadly (3)	9,000
Silk, fine	10,000
Spectacles	1,000
Spices, 3 lb. (15)	15,000
Telescope	5,000
Weapons
Axe 
(Striking) 	
DMG 3	250
Bow 
(Missile) 	
DMG 4	750
Crossbow 
(Missile) 	[2]
DMG 3	1,000
Cudgel 
(Clinch) 	
DMG 1	100
Firearm 
(Missile) 	[3]
DMG 6	5,000
Greatsword
(Extended)	[2]
DMG 3	2,000
Hammer 
(Striking)  	[2]
DMG 3	500
Knife 
(Clinch) 	
DMG 2	500
Lance 
(Extended) 	[2]
DMG 3	1,000
Mace
(Striking) 	[2]
DMG 2	750
Polearm 
(Extended) 	[2]
DMG 3	750
Spear 
(Extended) 	
DMG 2	100
Staff 
(Striking) 		75
Sword
(Striking) 	
DMG 2	1,000
Armor
Brigandine 
DR (12)	[6]	2,500
Chainmail
DR (10)	[8]	1,000
Full Plate
DR (20)	[15]	10,000
Half Plate
DR (15)	[10]	5,000
Gambeson
DR (6)	[2]	500
Shield 
(Extended) DR (8)	[2]	1000
 
Property & Services
Loans & Investments
Amounts of coin surpassing what can safely be carried may better be stored in a bank or invested in a property. For expenses exceeding a character’s current finances, consider incurring a debt from a local Noble, Merchant, or Banker.
Livestock
Livestock are domesticated animals used to produce labor and commodities. Some animals act as beasts of burden and can carry characters and items.
Inventory: Certain livestock have the ability to pack items. Their total inventory slots have been marked by an {x} symbol. 
Riding: To support the weight of their rider, mounts must have double the character’s current inventory available.
Hirelings
The world contains many people looking to sell their trades for coin. As characters grow in wealth, Hirelings can be contracted to aid in complex efforts. Daily wages for Hirelings have been denoted in copper pieces, and do not include supplies, materials, lodging, etc.
Lifepath: Each Hireling has a matching Lifepath that can be used for reference wages and Skills. As such, Lifepaths not listed below may also be hired.
Test Help: If a Hireling has a relevant Skill from their lifepath, that Skill can be utilized for call-on Help Dice.
Transport
Great distances across land and sea can be traversed more easily by paying for passage across established routes. 
Trips: Costs given below pertain to one-way trips.
The World: Transportation may provide means for avoiding natural barriers and crossing long distances quickly.
Ships
Sailing ships are river, costal, or sea-going vessels that use wind power to propel crew and cargo to new lands and opportunities. 
Crew & Cargo: Ships require a crew to operate, marked by an (x/y) symbol indicating minimum and maximum crew size respectively. In addition to the inventories of the crew members, ships can carry up to the maximum crew size in item slots.
The World: Ships open up many possibilities for travel in The World, allowing quick transit between ports.
Real Estate
Property constitutes purchased land and anything growing on it, attached to it, or erected on it, such as buildings, roads, structures, sewers, and fences.
Passive Income: Property may provide return on investment, calculated as a percent of the property’s value per year.
Taxes: Property under control of The State may be subject to taxes, regulation, and/or confiscation. Estates can also be gifted by those in power as rewards for service or loyalty.
Livestock
Chicken		20
Cow		1,000
Dog, hunting/herding		750
Dog, rat catcher		250
Donkey	{20}	1,250
Goat		300
Hawk, hunting		1,000
Horse, pack	{40}	2,000
Horse, riding	{60}	3,000
Horse, war	{80}	15,000
Ox		1,500
Mule	{30}	1,500
Pig		400
Pigeon, carrier		400
Sheep		200
Hirelings
Accountant	275
Alchemist	750
Archer	150
Armorer	300
Artisan	150
Attorney	500
Bard	200
Craftsman	150
Guard	175
Hedge Wizard	375
Infantryman	150
Knight	375
Labourer	75
Mercenary	275
Merchant	550
Privateer	300
Ranger	225
Researcher	200
Sailor	225
Scribe	150
Smuggler	325
Spy	450
Tailor	125
Wizard of War	750
Transportation
Horse, riding	100
Mule, riding	50
Cart	250
Wagon	500
Carriage	2,000
Ferry	100
Barge, river	1,000
Ship, costal	2,000
Ship, ocean	5,000
Ships
Barge	(3/15)	50,000
Caravel	(15/75)	800,000
Carrack	(50/250)	1,600,000
Cog	(5/25)	200,000
Cutter	(8/40)	500,000
Galleon	(60/600)	3,000,000
Galley	(100/200)	500,000
Knarr	(15/30)	25,000
Longship	(30/60)	300,000
Schooner	(10/100)	1,000,000
Sloop	(5/50)	250,000
Real Estate
Bank		1,000,000
Castle		5,000,000
Church		1,500,000
College		2,500,000
Cottage		250,000
Dockyard		5,000,000
Farmstead		500,000
Guildhall		750,000
Keep		2,500,000
Manor		1,500,000
Market		500,000
Mill		750,000
Palace		15,000,000
Tavern		250,000
Theater		750,000
Tower		500,000
Workshop		250,000
Conflict
Conflict mediates every interaction between characters and the world. These interactions constitute the uncertain events for which dice are rolled. While Conflict cycles may be strung together or nested within each other as the story demands, Conflict is ultimately resolved upon completion of a Gameplay Loop.
Intent
At the beginning of a Conflict Cycle, players must clearly express what outcome they intend to occur in an uncertain event. This defines their character’s Intent. Intent determines which mechanics apply and how to interpret events when resolved.
Task
A Task describes what action a character attempts in order to accomplish their Intent. Tasks must be finite, quantifiable, and performed by the character, e.g., attacking someone with a sword, forcing a door open, or debating in a court of law. 
Test
As described previously, Tests evaluate whether a character succeeds at their Task. Rolls made against a Test value or Challenge Rating must be based upon a Root Die value. However, Advantage and Disadvantage will also impact the final quantity of Successes.
Resolution
All rolls made against the Test resolve to either a Success, Failure, or Null Result. A Null Result does not fulfill the Intent of any parties involved in the Test. Upon Success, the victor’s Intent occurs.
General Rules
Damage 
Rolls below the Test value or Challenge Rating in a Test result in damage to an Attribute. The total damage accrued equals the difference between the roll and the target. Generally, social conflict or stress damages Morale, physical conflict or injury damages Vitality, and environmental conflict or fatigue damages Stamina; however, the exact relegation depends upon context.
Damage accrues after each Conflict Cycle; in a series of Cascading Tests, for example, the loser will accrue damage after each Opposed Roll.
Group Conflict
A singular, primary character leads all Conflict Cycles against an opposing force; however, other characters can contribute Help Dice to the leader. In the event of a failed Test, all characters involved accrue damage. Once the total damage amount has been calculated, each character receives damage up to the quantity of Help Dice they provided. The character acting in the primary role can change dynamically as the narrative demands or be determined by following generic initiative rules. 
Rulings
In addition to the GM, the players can propose rulings and interpretations of game mechanics. The GM ruling takes precedence over any single player; however, if all players unanimously oppose the GM’s interpretation, it can be overruled.
Shared GM: Optionally, the duties of the GM may be shared across the group, allowing direct narrative collaboration between all players/characters.
Test Variations
There are five subtypes of Test. The most applicable subtype depends upon the circumstances and level of Conflict. A Test can be escalated to a higher level at any point by any party involved.
Free Test
Free Tests constitute unopposed actions, such as picking up a light object or walking across the room, and do not require a roll. Free Tests only apply to actions for which failure has no consequence.
Variable Test
Variable Tests constitute open-ended Tests, for which the outcome depends entirely upon how well the character rolls. Characters do not incur damage from low rolls, but high rolls offer the possibility for unexpected positive outcomes. Variable Tests typically apply to uncontested actions defined only by the success of one party, such as asking a kind stranger for help, fishing in a calm pond, or performing light calisthenics.
Static Test
Static Tests constitute Tests against a discrete Test value or Challenge Rating. These Tests follow damage rules. Static Tests apply to actions such as bribing a guard, leaping over a crevice, or fording a river. The character must meet or exceed the stated Test value to succeed. 
Opposed Test
Opposed Tests constitute Tests against an intelligent agent using their own Root Dice. Both parties state their intent prior to rolling, and then compare total successes. Opposed Tests apply to actions such as short arguments, arm wrestling matches, or foot races.
Cascading Test
Cascading Tests escalate Opposed Tests. An Opposed Test’s loser can contest the result by choosing a new Root Die and repeating the Conflict Cycle. The victor can reroll using the same Root Die or choose a new Root Die. Subsequent Tests can be passed between characters regardless of the outcome of previous Tests.
Advanced Rules
These additional rules offer players options to potentially alter Test outcomes. 
Attack
Characters may burn Attribute points in order to add Call-On Dice to their Test roll, equal to the number of Attribute points spent. The decision to do this must be made prior to rolling for a Test. 
Defend
Players may withhold damage to an opponent to use as Successes in the next Test. The decision to do this must be made after the current Test has been resolved, but before another Test has commenced. 
Maneuver
Players may elect against rolling any or all Call-On Dice during a Test. If the player then succeeds in their Test roll, all withheld Call-On Dice count as Successes. The decision to do this must be made prior to rolling for a Test.
“Is this a dagger which I see before me, The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee. I have thee not, and yet I see thee still. Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible to feeling as to sight? – Macbeth
Challenge Rating
The difficulty of a Test can be estimated using Challenge Rating (CR) charts. The number of players (“P”) has been denoted on the horizontal axis; the number of Lifepaths per character (“L”) has been denoted on the vertical axis. Difficult Tests require the maximum number of successes possible, Average Tests require 50% of the maximum, and Easy Tests require 25% of the maximum. 
The CR values have been determined by totaling the number of lifepaths taken, potential related skills, applicable items, and Help from other characters. These values should be taken as a rough guide to determine overall challenge to a Test. For Conflict involving Opposed Tests, double the CR value to determine total dice rolled.
Easy Tests

L       P	1	2	3	4	5	6
1	1	2	2	3	3	4
2	1	2	2	3	3	4
3	2	3	3	4	5	6
4	2	3	4	4	5	6
5	3	4	5	7	8	9
6	3	4	6	7	8	9
7	4	5	7	8	10	11
8	4	5	7	8	10	11
9	5	7	9	11	13	15
10	5	7	9	11	13	15
11	5	8	10	12	14	17
12	6	8	10	12	15	17
Average Tests

L       P	1	2	3	4	5	6
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
2	2	3	4	5	6	7
3	3	5	6	8	9	11
4	4	5	7	8	10	11
5	5	8	10	13	15	18
6	6	8	11	13	16	18
7	7	10	13	16	19	22
8	7	10	13	16	19	22
9	9	13	17	21	25	29
10	9	13	17	21	25	29
11	10	15	19	24	28	33
12	11	15	20	24	29	33



Difficult Tests

L       P	1	2	3	4	5	6
1	3	5	7	9	11	13
2	4	6	8	10	12	14
3	6	9	12	15	18	21
4	7	10	13	16	19	22
5	10	15	20	25	30	35
6	11	16	21	26	31	36
7	13	19	25	31	37	43
8	14	20	26	32	38	44
9	17	25	33	41	49	57
10	18	26	34	42	50	58
11	20	29	38	47	56	65
12	21	30	39	48	57	66
Gameplay Loop
All of the core mechanics outlined above come together in the Gameplay Loop; a simple process flow used by players and GMs alike to direct action.
I. Exposition
The GM establishes the current state of The World. Exposition fixes the setting at a particular place and time, sets a mood or theme, establishes characters, and delineates major changes in The World since any previous adventures. Exposition can be conveyed through in-setting dialogue, sensorial impressions, or “meta” narration.
II. Rising Action
Rising Action introduces complications, obstacles, or other challenges following the Exposition, and builds towards Conflict. Rising Action comprises the most important part of the Gameplay Loop, as the entire loop depends upon it to facilitate the Climax and, ultimately, the resolution of the conflict. 
During the Rising Action, players state their Intent to act in response to the given challenge and construct specific Tasks that enable their characters to accomplish their Intent.  Players select Root Die; add Items, Call-On Skills, and Help; and apply Advanced Rules as needed. If a character fails their Task, the GM and players together determine the outcome of the conflict.
III. Climax
The Climax constitutes the turning point that decides a character’s fate. The GM determines the type of Test to apply and, as applicable, a target value from the Challenge Rating charts. The players and GM then roll all relevant dice and total their Successes.
IV. Falling Action
During the Falling Action, characters confront the force of their opposition in a moment of final suspense. The players compare their total Successes against the GM’s Test value to determine the victor. Potential twists, complications, or failures can be foreshadowed while the outcome is being determined.
V. Resolution
The Resolution of the conflict unravels the narrative tension and brings the Gameplay Loop to a close. If the players emerge victorious, their stated Intent occurs as described; upon defeat, however, the foreshadowed twist, complication, or failure occurs. The GM then wraps up any loose threads and sets the stage for another Gameplay Loop by providing new Exposition.
Death
"I am become death, the destroyer of worlds." ― Vishnu, Bhagavad-Gita
In Ataraxia character death is voluntary; however, involuntary death rules can be used for a more lethal experience.
Voluntary: Players consent to their characters’ deaths. If a player believes that an event should result in their character’s death, they must consult with the GM on the specifics and how it impacts the story. In some cases, character death can result in a Miracle.
Involuntary: Characters maintain the ability to lead in Tests once an Attribute has been reduced to zero; however, each Attribute reduced to zero incurs a penalty of two points of Disadvantage. Any new damage is distributed to the remaining Attributes. If all Attributes are reduced to zero, the character dies.
Might
Might represents the codified systems and traditions of combat for use in self-defense, sport, and war. 
“…Thus choosing to die resisting, rather than to live submitting, they fled only from dishonor, but met danger face to face, and after one brief moment, while at the summit of their fortune, escaped, not from their fear, but from their glory.” ― Pericles
Martial Skills 
Martial Skills, denoted by “†”, comprise two categories: Armed and Unarmed. Regardless of category, each weapon or unarmed Skill has an effective Range at which it can be used.
Armed
Name	Range
Bow	Missile
Crossbow	Missile
Firearm	Missile
Lance	Extended
Polearm	Extended
Shield	Extended
Spear	Extended
Axe	Striking
Hammer	Striking
Mace	Striking
Staff	Striking
Sword	Striking, Extended
Cudgel	Clinching
Knife	Clinching
Unarmed
Name	Range
Boxing	Striking
Brawling	Striking
Wrestling	Clinching
Grappling	Grappling
Range
When used at their ideal Range, Martial Skills gain a point of Advantage on Tests. These skills can also be used at one level closer or further than the ideal Range, beyond which they become ineffective and cannot inflict damage.
	Missile (15-1,000 ft.)
	Extended (5-15 ft.)
	Striking (5 ft.)
	Clinching (0 ft.)
	Grappling (0 ft.)
Missile
Missile Range constitutes the distance at which a projectile can accurately hit its target, approximately 15-1,000 ft. 
Extended
Extended Range constitutes the distance at which a spear or lance can accurately hit its target, approximately 5-15 ft.
Striking
Striking Range constitutes the distance at which an attack with an axe, hammer, or similar weapon—or, alternatively, an unarmed punch—can accurately hit its target, approximately 5 ft.
Clinching
During a physical altercation, Clinching Range constitutes the distance at which the combatants’ attempt to trip, throw, sweep, and strike while locked together, but still standing.
Grappling
Grappling Range constitutes the distance at which one combatant attempts to physically dominate their opponent by choking, locking, or pinning them. At this range, the combatants would be entangled and on the ground. Attacks made at this range bypass armor.
Movement
Attacks can be made at the starting Range, as well as one level closer or further than the starting Range, and resolve at the victor’s ideal Range. For example, in a conflict that begins at Striking Range, two opponents might contend with the Spear and Wrestling Skills. Depending upon the victor, the Range would resolve to either Extended or Clinching Range. Thus, the starting Range in a Cascading Test will be determined by the ideal Range of the victor’s weapon in the previous Test. 
If a character has no usable Might Skills within the current Test’s Range, they must use alternative Root Die in the Test and they cannot alter the Range.
Mounted Combat
Mounted characters gain +2 DMG and can resolve to any distance within their maximum Range if successful. For example, using a Lance while mounted can resolve to the Missile, Extended, or Striking Ranges. However, riders can be dismounted either narratively or by being brought into Clinching Range.
Environment
Cover & Position
Characters behind cover or on high ground may gain points of Advantage depending upon their level of protection or the superiority of their position.
Visibility
Dim Light or Darkness rules apply when attacking hidden or camouflaged opponents. The most applicable ruleset depends upon the opponent’s level of concealment.
Weapons
Weapons injure, defeat, or destroy an opponent. Only one weapon can be used at a time; however, weapons can be freely changed between Conflict cycles.
Bonus Damage: Some weapons deal additional Bonus Damage, indicated by a DMG value. This is an abstraction of the weapon’s armor penetration and general lethality. DMG is only added to the total of a successful Test.
Range: Each weapon has an ideal Range at which it grants a point of Advantage. Tests can be made one level closer or further than the ideal Range. Successful Tests resolve to the weapon’s ideal Range.
Thrown Weapons: Weapons can be thrown to increase their ideal Range by one level, thus altering the resolution distance to the new Range. For example, a knife thrown at Extended Range resolves to Striking Range.
Armor
Armor functions to reduce or mitigate incoming damage to an Attribute through Damage Reduction. Only one set of armor can be worn at a time.
Damage Reduction: Each item of armor has an associated consumable quantity, known as “DR” and indicated by an “(x),” which corresponds to the total amount of damage that the armor can absorb. Once all DR has been consumed, the armor becomes Degraded and will need to repairs to restore its full functionality. This extra protection comes at the cost of extra weight, however, indicated by an “[x].” If DR reduces the incoming damage in a Test to zero, then the Test resolves to a null resolution, or tie. Armor DR cannot be applied when in the ‘Grappling’ range.
Magic
Magic constitutes a system of arcane words which, when constructed into phrases, alter the natural world. These words fall into one of five categories: Change, Substance, Quantity, Location, and Duration. 
Magical phrases, known as spells, comprise at least one word from each category. To successfully cast a spell, a Static Test must be passed. The target value for this test equals the sum of each arcane word’s cost. Common arcane words and their associated costs have been tabulated below. Additionally, with the players’ and GM’s unanimous consensus, new magical words can be created. 
Magical Skills
Magical Skills, denoted by “*”, have an associated Word of Change.
Name	Change
Alchemy	Alteration
Apothecary	Decrease
Astrology	Increase
Aura Reading	Decrease
Bloodletting	Destruction
Enchanting	Increase
Faith	Generation
Ritual	Destruction
Runic Charms	Alteration
Sorcery	Generation
Spirit Binding	Movement
Summoning	Movement
Learning Spells
Spellcasters only know a finite quantity of arcane words. This quantity can be determined by summing the rank of all magical Skills and then spending the total value on arcane words based upon their associated cost. 
Magical Words
Change
Words of Change describe the essential manipulations that magic can perform. Spells can only use one Word of Change.
Ancient	Common	Cost
Genus	Generation	0
Exitium	Destruction	0
Augere	Increase	0
Diminutio	Decrease	0
Mutatio	Alteration	0
Motus	Movement	0
Substance
Words of Substance describe the perfect and unchanging representations of objects. Everything in the universe comprises some combination of the five elements: Fire, Water, Air, Earth, and Ether.
Ancient	Common	Cost
Ignis	Fire	1
Aqua	Water	1
Aer	Air	1
Terra	Earth	1
Aether	Ether	1
Anima	Soul	∞
Vita	Life	∞
Tempus	Time	∞
Quantity
Words of Quantity describe the aspect of the Word of Substance that the spell affects; spells only affect the exact aspect specified.
Ancient		Common	Cost
Pigmentum		Color	0
Punctum		Point	1
Directio	 	Direction	1
Longitudo	 	Length	2
Quantitas		Magnitude	2
Regio		Area	3
Massa		Mass	3
Volumen	 	Volume	4
Industria	 	Energy	4
Essentia		Essence	∞
Location
Words of Location describe the distance to the nearest part of the spell’s target. Spells with a Duration longer than a Moment remain in effect even if the caster moves out of range of the Word of Location.
Ancient	Common	Cost
Signum	Sigil	0
Tactus	Touch	1
Vox	Voice	2
Oculus	Sight	3
Cogitatio	Thought	∞
Duration
Words of Duration describe how long a spell lasts. Spells involving a celestial cycle last one full cycle, beginning at the moment of casting. Active spells can contribute Help Dice in appropriate situations, equal to the total number of Successes achieved at the spell’s casting.
Ancient	Common	Cost
Momentum	Moment	0
Intentio	Concentration	1
Solis	Sun	2
Luna	Moon	3
Annos	Year	5
Eclipsis	Eclipse	8
Aetate	Lifetime	12
Aeternitas	Eternity	∞
Spell Focuses 
Once a player has created a magic spell and a consensus of the spell’s effects has been established, the caster can begin the process of instantiating the spell in a physical Spell Focus. Spell Focuses constitute any object that aids the caster in the mnemonic recall of the spell. Spell Focuses take numerous forms, such as grimoires, rosary beads, etc. Once a Spell Focus has been created, and while it remains in the caster’s inventory, the caster gains one point of Advantage on rolls to cast that spell. Spell Focuses take up one inventory slot. 
Magic Items
Magic Items imbue a mundane item with a spell. Creation of the Magic Item requires the caster to sacrifice one Stat point, as well as successfully meet the check to cast the spell. Advanced Rules can be employed when creating a Magic Item. In addition to storing spells, Magic Items grant Exploding Dice when utilized in a Test and cannot become Degraded. Once the Magic Item’s stored spell has been cast, the item becomes mundane again.
Narrative 
Conflict Tests and Magic checks succeed and fail independently.
Test Success, Magic Success. The player’s Intent is accomplished and the spell occurs as intended.
Test Success, Magic Failure. The player’s Intent is accomplished; however, the spell does not perform as intended.
Test Failure, Magic Success. The player’s Intent is not realized; however, the spell occurs as intended, thus altering the overall outcome.
Test Failure, Magic Failure. Neither the player’s Intent nor Spell occurs as intended.
Warping
Failure to meet the spell target value results in damage following Static Test damage rules. When a caster rolls a total failure to cast a spell, the caster loses control of the spell and suffers permanent changes as a result. Not only does the spell produce different effects than specified in the Intent, the caster receives a permanent Trait associated with the spell failure.
Divinity
Divinity constitutes the transcendental force derived from beings or entities whose powers greatly surpass those of ordinary humans. The Divine guides humans to new levels of consciousness and capability, beyond the bounds of ordinary life. 
Limitations
The Divine begins where Magic ends. Magic, though very powerful, cannot overcome certain limitations without divine intervention. While academic institutions generally recognize these limits, ambitious scholars often attempt to exceed them.
Due to the ambiguity surrounding the distinction between arcane and holy magic, schools in both disciplines study the nature of Divinity and religious truth. Theorists disagree on whether an absolute distinction between magic and the Divine exists. Some believe that magic derives from the Limits of the Divine, and is thus a direct extension of Divinity.
The Limit of the Divine
Magic cannot affect the Divine; any magic attempting to do so simply fails. Agents of the Divine, such as angels and demons, possess some protection from magic but not total immunity. In principle, any being with a will separate from that of The Divine can be affected by magic. Only direct action by The Divine is completely immune.
Many theologians believe that there exists only one fundamental limit, the Limit of the Divine, and that all other limits derive from this central axiom.
The Limit of the Soul
The soul constitutes the incorporeal essence of a living being. Soul or psyche comprises the mental abilities of a living being: consciousness, reason, character, feeling, memory, perception, thought. Magic cannot create, alter, or destroy an immortal soul. 
Disembodied souls cannot exist on the material plane without being bound to a physical object or living creature.
The Limit of Life
Life is a condition of physical entities characterized by independent motion and reproduction. Magic cannot alter the forces of Life to create true living creatures, nor restore the dead to life. As a corollary, magic cannot be utilized to restore damaged Stats (Will, Intellect, Strength, Fortitude, Agility, and Endurance) or Attributes (Morale, Vitality, and Stamina.)
Many Magic theorists assert that this is a flaw in magical theory, although some theologians maintain that it is related to the limits of the soul.
The Limit of Warping
Spell backfires and prolonged exposure to active magic or high auras can cause strange changes in the caster, generally referred to as “warping.” Magic cannot affect changes caused by warping once they have occurred, nor can it alter naturally acquired Traits.
The Limit of Time
Magic cannot alter the passage of time, including details of past events. Magic can only impact the future by making changes in the present. 
“The distinction between the past, present and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion.” ― Albert Einstein
The Limit of Essence
Essence constitutes the property or set of properties that make an entity or substance what it fundamentally is, and which it has by necessity, without which it loses its identity. Magic cannot permanently affect something’s essence without tapping into raw arcane energy, thus limiting the temporal effects of all Generation and Destruction magic. Any magic that violates something’s essential nature must also be maintained, and when energy is no longer supplied the person or object returns to its natural state. Thus, Alteration magic must always be maintained, while the effects of Increase or Decrease magic can persist after the spell expires. 
The Limit of Thought
Magic effects are limited by the caster’s perception; thus, spells cannot directly impact a target until the caster is aware of it. Additionally, casters cannot gain insight beyond their natural senses. This limit prevents the ability to scry or remote view events or objects.
The Limit of the Eternity
Time is marked by the motion of the moon, planets, and stars. These celestial bodies spin through an ethereal void in an infinite dance. Each sphere contains its own realms which occasionally intersect with each other. Magic cannot impact the spheres’ movements; as such, spells cannot last forever.
Theorists contend that the turning of the Celestial Spheres is directly related to the passage of time, and thus celestial events are inexorably linked to events in The World.
Miracles
Events that appear inexplicable by the known laws of nature and Magic can be ascribed to a supernatural origin or perhaps a direct act of Divinity. Miracles bend or break the laws of The World. 
When a Miracle occurs, one Limitation of the Divine can be momentarily altered or disregarded. These are subject to the standard ruling limitations of Magic spells.
Divine Intervention
As the omnipotent and omniscient meta deity of The World, the GM reserves the right to alter rules of the universe as they see fit. Characters may entreat The Divine for a Miracle; however, many such prayers for Divine Intervention go unanswered. Nonetheless, these prayers for Divine Intervention must be announced by the player and spoken aloud by the character.
Artifacts: Items of divine origin can be consumed to grant a Miracle.
Martyrdom
Sometimes, dying in ultimate adherence to a cause or to one's religious faith can result in a Miracle. If a player martyrs their character, a Miracle can be enacted in the precursor to or aftermath of the character’s death. 
Hubris. The decision for a character to die should not be taken lightly, and the resultant Miracle can have profound implications in The World. As such, it is discouraged to create new characters for the sole purpose of sacrificing them for Miracles. Additionally, non-playable characters cannot be sacrificed to enact a Miracle. Attempting to do so tempts Divine retribution.
The World 
The World is an optional module that uses Tarot cards to randomly and procedurally generate a campaign setting. This process creates a rough map of The World, but not a precise record of national borders, geography, rivers, coastlines, or oceans; the map is not the territory. 
Getting Started
This module requires a set of Tarot cards for the look-up tables to function completely; however, a regular deck of playing cards will suffice to generate a limited set of Terrain, Weather, and card Scene Reading options.
Generation
This system uses randomly drawn cards. The card number, suit, and orientation are compared to look-up tables to determine the Terrain, Weather, and central conflict experienced by the characters. In some cases, the numbers from several consecutive cards will be used to generate features of The World.
Drawing Cards
Shuffle the deck of cards being used. Draw three cards and place them in a row. Place the characters on the third card; then, draw three more cards. Place these three face-down surrounding the characters’ card. Following resolution of the current conflict, reveal the three face-down cards and provide a brief description of their Terrain, Weather, and challenge. Alternatively, a larger world can be generated beforehand and revealed as the characters explore.
Terrain
Terrain is determined by adding the current and previous card’s values, then comparing this sum to the Terrain look-up chart. At the extreme edges of the distribution lie supernatural terrains that border between The World and other planes of existence.
Weather
As with Terrain, Weather is calculated by adding the current and previous card’s values, then comparing this sum to the Weather look-up chart. Lower values correspond to summery weather; conversely, higher values correspond to wintry weather.
The Weather is subject to change throughout a Scene depending on the narrative unfolding, and Weather inconsistent with the Terrain or Scene may be altered by the GM as necessary. The primary purpose of the Weather is to provide additional challenge for the characters and an emotional backdrop for the narrative.
Scene Reading
A 78 card Tarot deck has 56 cards that belong to one of four suits. Of this 56, 14 cards comprise the ‘Minor Arcana.’ The remaining 22 cards have no suit, and comprise the ‘Major Arcana.’ These cards deal with archetypes and universal symbols; they can be interpreted within any culture, place, or time.
Each Tarot card serves as a set piece for action and drama. Terrain and Weather calculations set the stage; the card’s suit and meaning produce the theme and type of conflict. Players help generate drama by acting out their characters.
Suit
The card’s suit determines the type of conflict encountered by the characters. Aspects of the conflicts ascribed to other suits can be present in any card, but the card’s suit will determine the primary type of conflict.
Wands: Conflict with Nature; focus on creativity and will
Cups: Conflict with the Supernatural; focus on emotions and love
Swords: Conflict with the Individual; focus on reason
Pentacles: Conflict with or within Society; focus on the material or possessions
Major Arcana: Conflict between two or more of the above suits.
Card Meaning
Each card has a canonical meaning or interpretation reflected not only in its associated words and images, but also in the current Weather, Terrain, and circumstances in which characters find themselves. Improvising in the moment is encouraged as much as possible, in order to maintain the ‘sandbox’ aspect of The World.
Upright / Reversed
Most interpretations of Tarot cards correspond to the upright orientation of the card; however, it is possible for a card to appear in an upside-down or in a reversed orientation. When this occurs, the standard meaning of the card is reversed or opposite from the upright interpretation. 
Return Travel: When returning to a card, invert its orientation from the previous position.
Exploration
“It's a dangerous business, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no knowing where you might be swept off to.” ― Bilbo
Time
Distance is measured in time, which is measured in moments. Only the daily cycle formally punctuates the passage of time in The World. 
Timekeeping: It is recommended to be loose with the length of time moment to moment, but strict with the tracking of days. This allows actions to carry appropriate narrative weight while still maintaining the verisimilitude of a coherent world.
Travel
At a minimum, journeying through a terrain card takes a full day; however, much greater lengths of time can pass as complications arise and the players engage with the emergent story.
Scouting
Adjacent cards are revealed after the current card’s conflict has been resolved. While rough estimates of Terrain and Weather can be provided by utilizing the look-up tables, scouting Tests may reveal more details. 
Survival
Each Terrain and Weather condition has an associated Challenge value. Summing these two values together generates a Test value against which to compare rolls to survive exposure to the elements or forage for food and water. This value should serve as a rough guide and can be tweaked as necessary.
Terrain
The Terrain constitutes the geography, climate, and ecological biomes that comprise The World. Terrain number can be calculated by summing the current and previous card’s values.
Ecology
Ecosystems consist of all the organisms and the physical environment with which they interact.
Wildlife
Wildlife constitutes all of the natural organisms that grow or live in an area without the intervention of civilization. Each Terrain biome has its own unique collection of flora and fauna that have formed in response to a shared regional climate and environment.
Rivers
A river constitutes a natural flowing watercourse, usually of freshwater, moving towards an ocean, sea, lake, or another river. Any terrain biome can have a river running through it. Rivers tend to run towards costal or lake cards (15-18) from either lower or higher number cards. Rivers appear on even numbered cards, but can also be present as the narrative demands.
Oceans
Only coastlands offer direct access to the sea; however, ships may travel rivers as applicable. There are no ‘ocean’ terrains, so trips between ports effectively act as extended down time with opportunities for nautical challenges. Cards can be randomly drawn to generate weather experienced along the journey that may divert the ship from its course.
Civilization
Settlements
All Terrains can support past or present human settlements and land cultivation. Below is a guide for adding settlements to various card suits and orientations.
	Pentacles (upright): A society or settlement that is thriving
	Pentacles (reversed): A society or settlement in decline
	Other (upright): Ancient ruins
	Other (reversed): Recent ruins
Population Density: Terrains with high or low numbers typically support lower populations than average Terrains.
Culture
Terrain Preference: Different peoples or states can prefer particular Terrains, allowing for a diverse and potentially competitive political and cultural landscape. For example, culture A could have a primary preference for Desert and Oasis, with a secondary preference for Plains and Flood Plains. In this way, each Terrain might have a primary, secondary, etc. culture present.
Weather
Weather serves to color the setting and offer additional complications during environmental transversal. 
Seasons
Cyclic seasons can be created by iteratively adding and subtracting values from the Weather value. For a full year cycle, mark the equinoxes by a zero Weather offset and iteratively subtract or add an offset until a maximum value corresponding to the solstice for Summer and Winter, respectively.
Terrain
Location	#	Challenge
Underworld	≤1	9
World Tree	2	7
Tropical Rainforest	3	5
Tropical Swamps	4	5
Rainforest	5	4
Deciduous forest	6	3
Evergreen forest	7	3
Thorn woodlands	8	3
Oasis	9	2
Desert	10	5
Plains	11	3
Lowlands	12	2
Flood Plains	13	2
Fenlands	14	2
Sandy coastland	15	1
Fjordic coastland	16	1
Rocky coastland	17	2
Lakeland	18	1
Temperate farmland	19	1
Temperate woodland	20	1
Bog	21	3
Scrub woodland	22	2
volcanic 	23	4
Alpine grasslands	24	2
Boreal forests	25	2
Montane rainforest	26	3
Highlands	27	3
Tundra	28	4
Glacial	29	5
Mountain summit	30	6
Floating islands	31	9
City in the clouds	≥32	4

Weather
Location	#	Challenge
Eclipse	≤3	0
Eye of the Storm	4	2
Hurricane	5	7
Lightning storm	6-7	5
Heavy rain	8-9	5
Thunderstorms 	10-11	3
Moderate rain	12-13	3
Light rain	14-15	2
Drizzle	16	3
Windy	17	2
Overcast	18	2
Cloudy	19	2
Foggy	20	1
Partly cloudy	21	1
Clear skies	22	1
Sunny	23-25	0
Clear skies	26	1
Partly cloudy	27	1
Cloudy	28	1
Overcast	29	1
Mists	30	2
Light rain	31	2
Cold rain	32	2
Freezing rain	33	2
Light snow	34	3
Light hail	35-36	3
Moderate snow	37-38	4
Heavy snow	39-40	5
Hail storm	41-42	6
Blizzard	43-44	7
Aurora Borealis	45-46	2
Eclipse	≥47	0
Minor Arcana
The Minor Arcana represent the relatively mundane features of life. Each suit has distinctive characteristics and connotations.
“Do not be afraid; our fate cannot be taken from us; it is a gift.” ― Dante Alighieri, Inferno
Wands
Wands indicate conflict with Nature and focus on creativity and will. The suit of Wands is associated with Spring and Fire, so it carries active messages of boldness, ambition, competitiveness, and initiative. Whenever a card of Wands appears, action or change follow. Powerful and passionate, cards of Wands convey bold movements or warn of over-extension.
The suit of Wands represents energy of movement, creativity, and invention; it also represents ideas, innovation, and an entrepreneurial spirit. Interpretations often relate to livelihood or a sense of purpose in the world. 
Cups
Cups indicate conflict with the Supernatural and focus on emotions and love. The suit of Cups is associated with Summer and Water, encouraging the flowing of feelings and the pursuit of happiness. Some of the most fortunate of all Tarot cards lie in the suit of Cups, yet these cards can also lead to confusion in relationships, disillusionment with perceived reality, or alterations of the self.

The suit of Cups represents emotions, relationships, and matters of the soul. Whenever a card of Cups appears, an emphasis on dreams, heart, spirit, and intuition follows. From great joy to immense grief, cards of Cups reveal how we truly feel—and how others feel about us. 
Swords
Swords indicate conflict with the Individual and focus on reason. The suit of Swords is associated with Autumn and Air. These cards enhance the mind, expand clarity and consciousness, and sharpen the edge of truth. Because of this strong connection to truth, cards of Swords also carry heavy interpretations about justice and fairness.
The suit of Swords represents conflict and strife, external and internal. These cards cut to the heart of a matter, revealing challenges such as disease, war, grief, loss, and death. However, these cards also reveal truths in need of facing in order to overcome obstacles and move forward. 
Pentacles
Pentacles indicate conflict with or within Society and focus on the material and possessions. The suit of Pentacles is associated with Winter and Earth, reflecting stability, pragmatism, and determination, as well as both giving and receiving. 
The suit of Pentacles suit represents the material and physical world. Cards of Pentacles represent an imbalance in the material world, manifesting as societies experiencing dark ages or renaissances alike. 
Wands
Wands centers around action, initiative, and invention, as well as guidance on how to move through life effectively, which manifests as conflict with Nature.
1. Ace of Wands
Upright: New business, beginning, birth, inheritance, calamity
Reversed: Selfishness, lack of determination, birth
2. Two of Wands
Upright: Generosity, courage, patience
Reversed: Impatience, domination
3. Three of Wands
Upright: Cooperation, good partnership, success
Reversed: Carelessness, arrogance, pride, mistakes
4. Four of Wands
Upright: Dissatisfaction, kindness, reevaluation, unexpected fortune
Reversed: New relationship, new ambitions, offspring
5. Five of Wands
Upright: Lawsuit or quarrel, courage, competition, fiscal success
Reversed: New opportunities, harmony, generosity, productive quarrels
6. Six of Wands
Upright: Leadership, good news, success
Reversed: Postponement, bad news, pride in riches, lack of trust
7. Seven of Wands
Upright: Competition, victory, courage, energy, darkness
Reversed: Advantage, patience, indecision
8. Eight of Wands
Upright: New ideas, love, journey
Reversed: Violence, quarrels, courage
9. Nine of Wands
Upright: victory, good health, obstinacy
Reversed: weakness, ill-health, adversity
10. Ten of Wands
Upright: Pain, failure, contradictions
Reversed: Cleverness, energy, strength
11. Page of Wands
Upright: Enthusiasm, exploration, discovery, free spirit
Reversed: Setbacks, pessimism, lack of direction
12. Knight of Wands
Upright: Generous, journey, alienation
Reversed: Suspicion, jealousy, frustration
13. Queen of Wands
Upright: Fondness, attraction, command, harvest
Reversed: Jealous, revengeful, infidelity
14. King of Wands
Upright: Passionate, good leader, noble, marriage
Reversed: Unyielding, prejudice, quarrels, advice
Cups
Cups relates to emotions, relationships, and matters of the soul, which manifests as conflict with the Supernatural.
1. Ace of Cups
Upright: Health, inflexibility, beauty
Reversed: Egotism, surprise, selfishness
2. Two of Cups
Upright: Romance, friendship, cooperation, pleasure
Reversed: Passion, misunderstanding
3. Three of Cups
Upright: Fortune, hospitality, discovery 
Reversed: Hidden, overindulgence, pain, gossip, cure
4. Four of Cups
Upright: Dissatisfaction, kindness, reevaluation, redemption
Reversed: Beginning, ambitions
5. Five of Cups
Upright: vain regret, sorrow, loss
Reversed: Return, summon, hope
6. Six of Cups
Upright: Leadership, good news
Reversed: Postponement, bad news, pride in riches
7. Seven of Cups
Upright: Competition, victory, courage, energy, resolve
Reversed: Advantage, patience, indecision
8. Eight of Cups
Upright: Marriage, love, journey
Reversed: Violence, courage, satisfaction
9. Nine of Cups
Upright: Physical well-being, hopes, security, might
Reversed: Illness, failure, overindulgence, abundance
10. Ten of Cups
Upright: Companionship, happiness
Reversed: Waste, departure, quarrel
11. Page of Cups
Upright: Sweetness, interest in literature, gentleness, unrequited love
Reversed: Poor imagination, selfishness, no desires, obstacles
12. Knight of Cups
Upright: Emotional, romantic dreamer, intelligence, friendly visit
Reversed: Idleness, untruthful, fraud, sensuality, irregularity
13. Queen of Cups
Upright: Loving mother, gentle, happiness, equivocal
Reversed: Perverse, unhappy, gloom, over-active imagination
14. King of Cups
Upright: Kindness, willingness, enjoyment, hypocrisy
Reversed: Charlatan, scandal, crafty, violent, loss
Swords
Swords reflects conflict and strife, whether external or internal in nature, which manifests as conflict with The Individual.
1. Ace of Swords
Upright: Valiant, prosperity, misery
Reversed: Obstacles, tyranny, power
2. Two of Swords
Upright: Indecision, trouble, balanced
Reversed:  Unscrupulous, roguery
3. Three of Swords
Upright: Broken relationship, civil war
Reversed: Sorrow, loss, confusion
4. Four of Swords
Upright: Temporary exile, strife, retreat
Reversed: Social unrest, labor strikes, renewed activity, administration
5. Five of Swords
Upright: Defeat, cowardliness, empty victory
Reversed: Unfairness, defeat, loss
6. Six of Swords
Upright: Harmony, sorrow, journey
Reversed: Obstacles, difficulties, defeat
7. Seven of Swords
Upright: Betrayal, insolence, unwise attempt, retirement
Reversed: Counsel, helpful, advice, unheeded
8. Eight of Swords
Upright: Weakness, indecision, censure
Reversed: Freedom, new beginnings, relaxation, departure
9. Nine of Swords
Upright: Desolation, illness, suspicion, cruelty
Reversed: Unselfishness, good news, healing, justified suspicion
10. Ten of Swords
Upright: Defeat, failure, pain
Reversed: Courage, positive energy, good health
11. Page of Swords
Upright: Grace, diplomacy, dexterity, grace, indiscretion
Reversed: Imposture, ill-health, cunningness, astonishment
12. Knight of Swords
Upright: Strong man, brave, clever person, heroic
Reversed: Troublemaker, crafty, tyranny, imbecile, dispute
13. Queen of Swords
Upright: Skillful, brave, clever, urgency, widow
Reversed: Sly, keen, deceitful
14. King of Swords
Upright: Powerful, friendship, counselor, high status
Reversed: Obstinate, malicious, judgments
Pentacles
Pentacles pertains to possessions and the material or mundane world, which manifests as conflict with or within Society. 
1. Ace of Pentacles
Upright: Prosperity, happiness, pleasure
Reversed: Misery, greedy, shared
2. Two of Pentacles
Upright: Harmony, efforts, helpful
Reversed: Difficulty, discouragement
3. Three of Pentacles
Upright: Abilities, approval, effort
Reversed: Preoccupation, ambitions
4. Four of Pentacles
Upright: Ungenerous, greed, miserly
Reversed: Spendthrift, obstacles, earthy possessions
5. Five of Pentacles
Upright: Destitution, poor health, despair, loneliness, conquest
Reversed: Employment, courage, revival
6. Six of Pentacles
Upright: Prosperity, philanthropy, charity, gifts
Reversed: Jealousy, miserliness, unfairness
7. Seven of Pentacles
Upright: Development, re-evaluation, effort, hard work
Reversed: Impatience, apprehension
8. Eight of Pentacles
Upright: Employment, money, learning, trade
Reversed: Void, no ambition, dislike, lending
9. Nine of Pentacles
Upright: Solitude, well-being, green thumb
Reversed: Caution, possible loss, vain hopes
10. Ten of Pentacles
Upright: Wealth, property, stability, community
Reversed: Dull, slothfulness, misfortune
11. Page of Pentacles
Upright: Kindness, new ideas, opinions, scholar
Reversed: Luxury, rebellious, bad news
12. Knight of Pentacles
Upright: Usefulness, patience, lover, discovery, trustworthy
Reversed: Unemployment, carelessness, standstill, irresponsible
13. Queen of Pentacles
Upright: Thoughtfulness, intelligence, talents, melancholy, opulence
Reversed: Mistrust, suspicion, neglect, infirmness
14. King of Pentacles
Upright: Mercantile, reliable person, steadiness, master
Reversed: Bribes, materialistic, calm, aged, vicious
Major Arcana
0. The Fool
The Fool represents the protagonist of a story; the Major Arcana follows the Fool’s path through the great mysteries of life. This path is known traditionally in Tarot cards as the "Fool's Journey".
Upright: Folly, mania, extravagance, intoxication, delirium, frenzy
Reversed: Negligence, absence, distribution, carelessness, apathy, nullity, vanity.
1. The Magician
The Magician reflects energy, potential, and the manifestation of one's desires; this card symbolizes the meetings of the physical and spiritual worlds "as above, so below" and the conduit converting spiritual energy into real-world action.
Upright: Talent, willpower, desire, diplomacy, creation, manifestation
Reversed: Unfocused, trickery, illusions, disconnection, disgrace, disquiet
2. The High Priestess
The High Priestess depicts the divine feminine; religion, self, nature. She represents intuition, and someone beginning to open up their spirituality. The card indicates meditation, prayer, and new spiritual work. 
Upright: Secrets, mystery, divinity, harmony, intuition, unconscious, 
Reversed: Passion, profane, centerless, repression, discordance, conceit
3. The Empress
The Empress represents the mundane Garden of Eden, the "Earthly Paradise." She is defined as a Refugium Peccatorum —a fruitful mother of thousands: "she is above all things universal fecundity and the outer sense of the Word, the repository of all things nurturing and sustaining, and of feeding others.”
Upright: Fertility, fruitfulness, action, initiative, ignorance, the unknown
Reversed: Light, truth, unravelling, rejoicing, indecision, dependence
4. The Emperor
The Emperor represents authority, regulation, organization, and a fatherliness. The Emperor, a strategic thinker, conceives of plans that he must complete. He symbolizes the masculine principle—the paternal figure in life that gives structure, creates rules and systems, and imparts knowledge.
Upright: Stability, power, protection, realization, greatness, authority, will
Reversed: Benevolence, compassion, obstruction, immaturity
5. The Hierophant
The Hierophant is the summa totius theologiæ; he symbolizes the righteous and sacred on the manifest side. As such, he constitutes the channel of grace for institutions, distinct from Nature, and leads the salvation of the human race at large.
Upright: Marriage, tradition, alliance, conformity, mercy, inspiration
Reversed: Rebellion, subversion, understanding, weakness, separation
6. The Lovers
The Lovers suggests youth, virginity, innocence, and love before the contamination of gross material desire.  In all simplicity, this card reflects human love, the truth, and life; as such, this card also pertains to the great mysteries of the union between Adam and Eve prior to their expulsion from edenic paradise.
Upright: Attraction, love, beauty, trials, partnership, union, duality, innocence, naïveté.
Reversed: Failure, disharmony, foolishness, infertility, imbalance
7. The Chariot
On the shoulders of the victorious hero are the Urim and Thummim.  Though he has conquered all planes through his progress and in trials of initiation, He is held captive by structures and forces of his own creation. He represents, above all things, triumph of the mind over the body.
Upright: Direction, providence, war, triumph, presumption, vengeance
Reversed: Aggression, riot, quarrel, dispute, litigation, defeat, directionless
8. Strength
Primal power, in one of its most exalted aspects, connects with the Divine Mystery of Union; the virtue, of course, operates in all planes, and hence draws on all in its symbolism. It connects also with innocentia inviolata, and with the strength residing in contemplation.
Upright: Power, energy, action, courage, magnanimity, success, honours
Reversed: Despotism, abuse of power, weakness, discord, disgrace
9. The Hermit
The Hermit represents attainment; the card’s figure holds up his beacon on an eminence. Therefore, the Hermit is neither a wise man seeking truth and justice nor a noteworthy example of experience. Instead, his beacon declares "where I am, you also may be" and the truth that the Divine Mysteries secure their own protection from those who are unprepared.
Upright: Prudence, circumspection, treason, dissemination, corruption
Reversed: Concealment, disguise, isolation, fear, trepidation, loneliness
10. Wheel of Fortune
The Wheel of Fortune symbolizes the perpetual motion of a fluidic universe and the flux of human life. Notably, the inscription has the transliteration of Taro as Rota, counterchanged with the letters of the Divine Name—to show that Providence is implied through all. 
Upright: Destiny, fortune, cycles, change, success, elevation, luck, fate
Reversed: Increase, abundance, superfluity, disorder
11. Justice
Justice sits between pillars, indicating the moral principle which deals unto every Man according to his works, differing in its essence from spiritual justice. The pillars of Justice open into one world and the pillars of the High Priestess into another.
Upright: Equity, rightness, integrity, executive; triumph, truth
Reversed: Bureaucracy, complications, bigotry, bias, severity, dishonesty
12. The Hanged Man
The gallows from which The Hanged Man is suspended forms a Tau cross, while his figure forms a fylfot cross. A nimbus halo hovers about the head of the seeming martyr. The tree of sacrifice is living wood, with leaves thereon; the face expresses deep entrancement, not suffering; the figure, as a whole, suggests life in suspension, but life and not death.
Upright: Wisdom, circumspection, discernment, trials, sacrifice, intuition, divination, prophecy, martyrdom
Reversed: Selfishness, hysteria, zealotry, vainness, cowardice, indolence
13. Death
Death pierces the veil of life with change, transformation, and passage from lower to higher. Behind it lies the whole world of ascent in the spirit. The horseman carries no visible weapon, but king and child and maiden fall before him, while a bishop awaits his end.
Upright: Mortality, unemployment, destruction, corruption, miscarriage
Reversed: Inertia, sleep, lethargy, petrifaction, somnambulism, hopeless
14. Temperance
Temperance represents the part of the Secret of Eternal Life available to mortal man. When manifest in consciousness, it tempers, combines, and harmonizes the psychic and material natures. Under that rule, we know in our rational part something of whence we came and where we are going.
Upright: Economy, moderation, patience, frugality, accommodation
Reversed: Institutions, religion, excess, priesthood, disunion, extremes
15. The Devil
The figures below The Devil have tails, signifying their animalistic nature, but their faces depict human intelligence. He who is exalted above them in occult science and magic is not forever their master. It signifies the Dweller on the Threshold without the Mystical Garden when eaters of the forbidden fruit are driven forth.
Upright: Ravage, indulgence, servitude, vehemence, extremes, predestination
Reversed: Freedom, release, weakness, pettiness, blindness
16. The Tower
The Tower signifies the materialization of the spiritual word and destruction of the physical. The Tower has been spoken of as the chastisement of pride and the intellect overwhelmed in the attempt to penetrate the Mystery of God. It is the ruin of the House of Man, when evil has prevailed, and the rending of a House of Doctrine.
Upright: Misery, distress, indigence, adversity, disgrace, catastrophe
Reversed: Negligence, apathy, absence, deliverance, distraction, vanity
17. The Star
The Star is l'étoile flamboyante; the flaming expression of eternal youth and beauty. The figure communicates the substance of the Heavens and the elements, or the "Waters of Life " and "Gifts of the Spirit,” to the living scene.
Upright: Loss, privation, abandonment, hope, light, prospects, rejuvenation
Reversed: Arrogance, haughtiness, impotence, insecurity, faithlessness
18. The Moon
The Moon represents the living imagination, separate from the living spirit. The path between the towers leads into the unknown, portraying the fears of the natural mind in the presence of the void. Here, reflected light serves as the sole guide. The intellectual light is a reflection; beyond it lies an unknown mystery that it cannot shew forth. It illuminates our animalistic nature, those nameless and hideous tendencies beneath even savage beasts, striving to attain manifestation but always sinking back whence they came. The face of the mind directs a calm gaze upon the unrest below, knowing that there shall come a calm upon the animal nature while the abyss beneath shall cease from giving up a form.
Upright: Danger, illusion, darkness, terror, deception, occult, unconscious
Reversed: Instability, inconstancy, silence, confusion, misinterpretation
19. The Sun
The Sun reflects the destiny of the Supernatural East and the great and holy light which goes before the endless procession of humanity, coming out from the walled garden of the sensitive life and passing on the journey home. This card signifies the transit from the manifest light of this world, represented by the glorious sun of earth, to the light of the world to come, which goes before aspiration and is typified by the heart of a child. The sun is that of consciousness in the spirit—the direct as the antithesis of the reflected light.
Upright: Material happiness, joy, flourishing marriage, serenity
Reversed: Material possession, stable marriage, contentment, unfulfillment
20. Judgement
All the figures become one in wonder, adoration, and ecstasy. Judgement acknowledges the accomplishment of transformational work in answer to the summons of the Supernal, that which we hear and answer from within. The higher calling within sounds a trumpet and the lower nature rises in response to the Last judgment, the natural body’s resurrection, eternal life. 
Upright: Rebirth, absolution, reflection, causality, redemption, reckoning
Reversed: Rejection, fear, uncertainty, doubt, self-loathing
21. The World
The World represents the perfection and end of the Cosmos, its hidden secrets, and the universe’s rapture when it understands itself in God. It is further the state of the soul in the consciousness of Divine Vision, reflected from the self-knowing spirit, and the state of the restored world when manifestation has been carried to the highest degree of natural perfection. But it is perhaps principally a story of the past, referring to that day when all was declared to be good, when the morning stars sang together and all the Sons of God shouted for joy. Lastly, it has been called the Crown of the Magi.
Upright: Assured success, recompense, voyage, route, emigration, flight, travel, harmony, fulfillment, completion
Reversed: Inertia, fixity, stagnation, permanence, incompletion, emptiness
 
 
Indices 
Lifepaths
A full updated list of all lifepaths can be found at the following google drive location 
You may have to copy the link directly into your browser.
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13eDrdlENhgEpoKKKfYvcWultb81Uxut2qtYSfFra4nc/edit?usp=sharing

 
Skills
Note: new skills can be added as necessary.
† indicates a Might skill
* indicates a Magic skill
A
Accounting
Acrobatics
Acting
Administration
Alchemy *
Anatomy
Ancient Languages
Animal Handling
Apothecary *
Appraisal
Archaeology
Architect
Armoury
Arson
Artillery
Astrology *
Astronomy
Aura Reading *
Axe †
B
Baking
Bargaining
Begging
Bloodletting *
Bow †
Boxing †
Brawling †
Brewing
Bribery
Building
Bureaucracy
Butchery
C
Calligraphy
Camouflage
Campaigning
Carpentry
Cartography
Carving
Child-Rearing
Church Law
Cleaning
Climbing
Cobbling
Command
Conspicuous
Cooking
Counterfeiting
Crossbow †
Cryptography
Cudgel †
D
Dance
Demonology
Diatribe
Digging
Diplomacy
Disguise
Distillation
Diving
Doctrine
Drinking
Driving
Drum
Dyeing
E
Embroidery
Enchanting *
Engineering
Engraving
Estate Management
Etiquette
Extortion
F
Faith*
Falconry
Falsehood
Farming
Field Dressing
Firearms †
Firebombs
Firebuilding
Fishing
Fletching
Flute
Folklore
Foraging
Foreign Languages
Forgery
Formation Fighting
Fortifications
G
Gambling
Gardening
Garrote
Gem Shaping
Geography
Geology
Geometry
Grappling †
H
Haggling
Hammer †
Hauling
Heraldry
Herbalism
Herding
Heretical Doctrine
Hiking
History
Housekeeping
Hunting
I
Illustration
Inconspicuous
Instruction
Interrogation
Intimidation
Invention
Irrigation
J
Jargon
Javelin
K
Knives †
Knots
L
Lance †
Lash
Law
Leadership
Leatherworking
Lock Pick
Locksmith
Logging
Logic
Logistics
Luthier
M
Mace †
Management
Marching
Mason
Mathematics
Meditation
Mending
Metallurgy
Meteorology
Midwifery
Milling
Mimicry
Mining
Munitions
Musical Composition
Musical Instrument
N
Navigation
Nursing
O
Observation
Occultism
Oratory
Orienteering
P
Painting
Persuasion
Philosophy
Physics
Pickpocket
Piloting
Platitudes
Playwright
Poetry
Poisons
Polearm †
Politics
Preaching
Preservation
Prospecting
R
Read
Research
Rhetoric
Riding
Rigging
Ritual *
Runic Charms*
S
Saddlery
Sailing
Scavenging
Sculpture
Seamanship
Seduction
Serving
Sewing
Shield †
Shipwright
Siege
Signaling
Sing
Skiing
Sleight of Hand
Smithing
Smuggling
Sorcery *
Spear †
Spirit Binding *
Staff †
Stealth
Strategy
Summoning *
Surgery
Surveying
Survival
Swimming
Sword †
Symbology
T
Tactics
Tanning
Tasting
Taxidermy
Theology
Throwing
Torture
Tracking
Trapping
U
Ugly Truth
W
Weaving
Wrestling †
Write 
 
 
Traits
Note: new Traits can be added as necessary.
A
A Bit Deaf
A Little Crazy
Abashed
Ablutomania
Abused
Abusive
Academic
Aching
Addicted
Addled Brains
Aggressive
Agoraphobic
Agreeable
Alarmist
Alcoholic
Alert
Aloof
Ambidextrous
Ambitious
Amenable
Amputated Limb
Anemic
Apostate
Apprehensive
Arachnophobia
Arcane
Arrogant
Authoritative
Automatonophobia
Awkward
B
Bad Reputation
Balanced
Bastard
Batshit Insane
Bedside Manners
Bee-speaker
Believer
Big Boned
Big Spender
Bitten
Black Lung
Blank Stare
Blasphemer
Blind
Blistered
Bloodthirsty
Boaster
Bookworm
Booming Voice
Bored
Boring
Brash
Brave
Broken
Broken Bone
Bruiser
Brusque
Brutal
Bully
Burnt
Buxom
C
Called to the Sea
Callous
Calm
Cassandra
Cautious
Celestial
Charismatic
Charming
Chosen One
Chronologue
Chuffing
Cipher
Circumspect
Claustrophobic
Clumsy
Cocky
Cold Hearted
Collector
Color Blind
Colorful
Comely
Comfortable Shoes
Commanding Aura
Compassionate
Compulsive
Compulsive Liar
Concussed
Condescending
Confident
Confusing
Connected
Contortionist
Cool Headed
Corrupt
Cowardly
Creepy
Crippled
Crotchety
Cruel
Cryptic
Curious
Cursing
Cynical
D
Dangerous
Daring
Deadly
Deaf
Death Wish
Debauched
Deep Sleeper
Defensive
Deferential
Demagogue
Demented
Demonomania
Deranged
Desperate
Despondent
Determined
Deviant Tastes
Devout
Diligent
Diminuitive Stature
Dirty Hands
Disciplined
Diseased
Disfigured
Dislocated Joint
Dismissive
Distracted
Disturbed
Domineering
Dour
Down to Earth
Downtrodden
Dramatic
Dreadful
Dreamer
Driven
Drunk
Dumb
Dusty
Dutiful
E
Eagle Eye
Early Riser
Earthen
Educated
Egocentric
Eidetic Memory
Eldritch
Elfin
Emotional
Enlightened
Entropic
Ergotism
Erudite
Esoteric
Eunuch
Evasive
Evil
Exasperated
Exhausted
Extra Digit
Extrovert
F
Faded
Faith in the Old Gods
Faithful
Faithless
Familiar Face
Fanatical Devotion
Fastidious
Fated
Fateful
Faustian Bargain
Favored
Fearful
Fearless
Feral
Fervent Believer
Fey Blood
Fiery
Filthy
Firm
Fixed Smile
Flagellant
Flamboyant
Flatterer
Flatulent
Flea-Bitten
Fleet of Foot
Floury
Folksy Wisdom
Force of Nature
Formalist
Fortitude
Foul Smelling
Fractured Bone
Fragile
Fragrant
Frail
Fretful
Frustrated
Furtive

G
Gambler
Garrulous
Generous
Genial
Genius
Gentle
Geometric
Gifted
Glib
Gloryhound
Gluttonous
Gnawing Hunger
God Fearing
Gonorrhea
Good for Nothing
Good Listener
Gopher
Gorgeous
Gossip
Graceful
Graduate
Greater Muse
Greedy
Grim
Grotesque
Grumbling
Guarded
Guilty Conscience
H
Hacking Cough
Hairy
Halitosis
Handicapped
Handsome
Happy-Go-Lucky
Hard Noggin
Hard Skinned
Hard Worker
Hardened
Hard-Hearted
Harried
Hateful
Haunted
Hazed
Healthy
Heartless
Heliophobic
Hemophobic
Hermaphrodite
Hideous
Hoarder
Holy
Homesick
Honored
Hope
Hopeless
Horrific Aura
Horse-friend
Humble
Hungry
Hydrophobic
Hypochondriac
I
Idealistic
Ideologue
Imperious
Impersonal
Impressive Hat
Impulsive
Incessant Tapper
Incomprehensible
Inconsiderate
Indecisive
Independent
Industrious
Ineffable Feature
Infallible Logic
Ink-Stained Hands
Inscrutable
Insidious Cruelty
Insightful
Insomniac
Inspirational
Intense
Intimidating
Intractable
Invisible Friend
Involuntary Shudders
Iron Stomach
Iron Will
Irrational
Irrepressible
J
Jaded
Jaunty
Jealous
K
Keen Taste
Killer
Kleptomaniac
Know It All
Known Cheat
L
Laconic
Lame
Landlubber
Late
Lavish Taste
Lawbreaker
Lazy
Lazy Eye
Learned
Leprosy
Light Sensitive
Light Sleeper
Light Touch
Linguist
Lithe
Loner
Lonesome
Long Fingered
Long of Limb
Lost
Lost Faith
Love Interest
Low Born
Low Speech
Loyal
Lucky
Lugubrious
Luminescent
Lunatic
Lurker
Lustrous
M
Mad
Maimed
Malformed
Man Hunter
Manly
Mark of Privilege
Mark of the Beast
Marooned
Martyr
Masochistic
Massive Stature
Maternal
Matriarchal
Mean
Meditator
Meek
Melodramatic
Mercenary
Merciful
Merciless
Mercurial
Mesmerizing Gaze
Metal Plate in the Skull
Meticulous
Mind for Small Details
Mind Over Matter
Misanthropic
Missing Digit
Missing Eye
Missing Limb
Misunderstood
Monastic
Murderous
Mute
Muttering
Myopic
N
Naked Hatred
Named
Narcoleptic
Natural Eye
Natural Swing
Nauseous
Near-Sighted
Necrophilic
Necrophobic
Nervous
Night Owl
Nihilistic
Nimble
Noblesse Oblige
Nocturnal
Nose for Trouble
Numbness
Nyctophobic
Nymphomania
O
Oafishly Charming
Obedient
Obliging
Obscure Aura
Obsessed
Obstinate
Odd
Odious
Off Guard
Off-Kilter
On Guard
Opportunist
Ornery
Other Life
Overbite
Overworked
P
Pack Rat
Palsy
Paranoid
Parasites
Pariah
Passionate
Patient
Patriarchal
Pecunious
Penetrating Gaze
Penny-Wise
Perfect Pitch
Perfectionist
Perspective
Piercing Gaze
Plague Survivor
Plain Face
Plotting
Pointed Ears
Poisoned
Poker Face
Polite
Pompous
Portly
Possessed
Pound-Foolish
Practical
Practiced Smile
Pragmatic
Pragmatic Outlook
Precise
Predatory
Problem with Authority
Prodigy
Professional
Profusely Sweaty
Prominent Scar
Prone to Exaggeration
Proud
Psychotic
Pugilist
Pyromaniac
Q
Querulous
Quick Reflexes
Quick Study
Quickdraw
Quickened Pulse
Quick Witted
Quiescent
Quiet
Quirky
R
Rabble Rouser
Rapturous
Rash
Reckless
Reclusive
Recondite
Red-Blooded
Reeks
Regal Bearing
Reincarnated
Resigned to Death
Resigned to Fate
Resilient
Resolute
Restless
Revered
Reviled
Rhetorical
Righteous
Road Weary
Robust
Romantic
Rough Hands
Royal Favorite
Royal Presence
Ruddy Complexion
Ruminator
Ruthless
S
Sadistic
Salt of the Earth
Sane
Satanophobia
Savvy
Scapegoat
Scarred
Scattering
Scavenger
Sceptic
Scheming
Screaming
Scurvy
Sea Legs
Seasoned
Second Sight
Second Wind
Secretive
Seemingly Unconcerned
Seen It All
Seen, Not Heard
Self-Confident
Selfish
Sense of Direction
Sense of Distance
Sense of Entitlement
Sense of Humor
Serious
Shaking Hands
Sharp Dresser
Shocker
Shouting
Shrewd
Sick
Sickly
Silent
Silent Hatred
Singed
Single-Minded
Sixth Sense
Skeptical
Skinny
Sleek
Sleep-Talker
Sleep-Walker
Slippery
Slow
Slugger
Smart
Smells Like a Barn
Snorer
Soft
Soft Step
Solitary
Sonorous Voice
Spartacus
Speaker of Tongues
Spectacular
Spirit Familiar
Spirit Nature
Spooky
Sprinter
Squinty
Stalker
Stark Raving Mad
Starved
Steady
Steady Hands
Stern
Stinky
Stoic
Stout
Strange
Strapping
Street Smart
Stress Eater
Stress Faster
Strong Back
Strong-Willed
Stubborn
Stung
Stupid
Stuttering
Suicidal
Superstitious
Suspicious
Swaggering
Sweet Tooth
Sworn Homage
Syphilis
T
Taciturn
Tactician
Tainted Legacy
Talks-With-Birds
Tall Tale Teller
Temperamental
Tenacious
Tentacles
Tenuous
Thanatophobia
The Yips
Thick Blooded
Thick Skin
Thief
Thin Blooded
Thoughtful
Thousand-Yard Stare
Thuggish
Tidy Aspect
Timid
Tinkerer
Tired
Toiling
Tolerant
Tonsured
Torn Muscle
Torn Rotator
Touch of Madness
Touch of the Devil
Tough
Trusting
Trustworthy
Tunnel Vision
Turgid
Typhoid
U
Ugly
Unbeliever
Unctious
Underbite
Underpaid
Uneasy
Unerring
Unfeeling
Unflinching
Unheeded
Unholy Witness
Unlucky
Unquiet Mind
Unrelenting Hatred
Unyielding
Urbane
Vegetarian
V
Venal
Versatile
Vested
Victimized
Virtuoso
Visionary
Vitriolic
Vocal
Voracious Appetite
W
War Weary
Wanderlust
Wary
Watchful
Weak
Weak Grip
Weak-Willed
Weapon Tinker
Webbed Toes
Weight of the World
Weird
Well Endowed
Well Dressed
Well Fed
Well-Traveled
Winded
Withdrawals
Witness
World Weary
Worldly
X
Xenophobic
Xenophilic
Y
Yellow-Bellied
Z
Zealot
Zoophobic 

Example Character Sheets
 
 
Character: Åstrid	Age: 29
Player: Sara		Inspiration: 4
Lifepaths
Lifepath	Time	Rank	Lifepath	Time	Rank
• Born Peasant	8	_2_	• Witch	6	_3_
• Farmhand	4	_1_	•		___
• Supplicant	2	_1_	•		___
• Covenanter	5	_1_	•		___
• Warlock	4	_2_	•		___
Beliefs
• My magic is a gift, but it comes with a price; I must use it for Good
• Speaking uncomfortable truths is necessary
• I must find the fey creature who granted me my magic
•
Traits	Instincts
• Comfortable shoes	• Lotus eater	• Always carves sigils into arrowheads
• Eldritch	•	• Always carves sigils into knifes
• Horse friend	•	• Hides knife in tall boots
• Piercing gaze	•	•
• Red-blooded	•	•
• Elfin	•	•
Connections
Affiliation	Rank	Affiliation	Rank
   • Royal Stables	_2_	   • Konstantine (Bard)	_2_
   • Witches’ Coven	_4_	   •	___
   • Kingdom of Albion	_1_	   •	___
	Stats	
Will: 5	Strength: 4	Agility: 5
Intellect: 4	Fortitude: 1	Endurance: 3
	Attributes	
Morale:	9 / 9	Vitality: 	5 / 5	Stamina: 	8 / 8
Armor: 7
Inventory 19 / 22
Person	Storage (horse)
• Brigandine [7] DR: 7	• Hardtack Rations (5)
• Bow, Missile, DMG 1	• Animal Feed (5)
• Knife, Clinching, DMG 1	• Bedroll
• Water skin	• Tent, 3 man [2]
• Lantern [2]	• Winter Furs
• Lamp Oil (10)	• Cookpots
• Horn	• 28 gp, 30 sp, 13 cp
• Deck of Cards	• Silk Robes
• Chalk (x10)	• Saffron (3)
• Mortar and Pestle	• 
• Incense (5)	•
• Jar, glass (4)	•
• 	•
• 	•
Property	Livestock
•	• Riding Horse (Peaches)
•	• Spirit Familiar (Silica)
•	•
 
Skills
Name	Rank	Name	Rank
Anatomy	_1_	Ritual *	_1_
Ancient Languages	_2_	Runic Charms	_2_
Animal Handling	_2_	Seduction	_2_
Apothecary *	_4_	Sing	_2_
Astrology *	_4_	Spirit Binding *	_4_
Aura Reading *	_2_	Symbology	_2_
Bloodletting	_5_	Ugly Truth	_5_
Bow †	_2_		__
Butchery	_1_		__
Climbing	_1_		__
Cooking	_1_		__
Dance	_4_		__
Demonology	_2_		__
Digging	_1_		__
Falsehood	_2_		__
Farming	_2_		__
Fire Building	_3_		__
Folklore	_2_		__
Foraging	_3_		__
Haggling	_2_		__
Hauling	_2_		__
Herbalism	_5_		__
Heretical Doctrine	_2_		__
Intimidation	_1_		__
Knives †	_2_		__
Mending	_1_		__
Meteorology	_2_		__
Occultism	_4_		__
Poisons	_2_		__
Riding	_2_		__
 
Might
Weapon	Skill Rank	Range	Bonus Damage
Bow	2	Missile	+1
Knives	2	Clinching	+1
			
			
			
Magic
Change
Magical Skill	Skill Rank	Word	Cost
Apothecary, Aura Reading	5, 1	Generation	0
Astrology	4	Destruction	0
Bloodletting, Ritual	5, 1	Increase	0
Runic Charms	2	Decrease	0
Spirit Binding	4	Alteration	0
Sorcery	1	Movement	0
Substance	Quantity
Word	Cost	Word	Cost
Fire	1	Color	0
Water	1	Point	1
Earth	1	Direction	1
Aether	1	Length	2
Plant
 (Earth + Water)	2	Area	3
Location	Duration
Word	Cost	Word	Cost
Sigil	0	Moment	0
Touch	1	Concentration	1
Voice	2	Moon	3
Sight	3		
			
 
 
Character: Ali Ibn-Taleb
Age: 39
Player: Marshall		Inspiration: 3
Lifepaths
Lifepath	Time	Rank	Lifepath	Time	Rank
• Born Burgher	12	_1_	• Man-at-Arms	4	_1_
• Enlistedman	4	_2_	• Quartermaster	7	_4_
• Infantryman	3	_1_	•		___
• Artillerist	4	_2_	•		___
•Mercenary	5	_3_	•		___
Beliefs
• God is the most great
• Reach Heaven through violence
• If you meet the prophet on the road, kill him
• Do onto others as you would have done to your self
Traits	Instincts
• Devout	• Patient	• Keeps powder dry
• Worldly	• Sword Wound	• 
• Eagle Eye	•	•
• A Bit Deaf	•	•
• Shrapnel Scars	•	•
• Missing Digits	•	•
Connections
Affiliation	Rank	Affiliation	Rank
   • The Golden Company	_6_	   •	___
   • Divine Church	_1_	   •	___
   • Geometer Guild	___	   •	___
	Stats	
Will: 4	Strength: 5	Agility: 3
Intellect: 2	Fortitude: 6	Endurance: 4
	Attributes	
Morale:	6 / 6	Vitality: 	11 / 11	Stamina: 	7 / 7
Armor: 15
Inventory 22 / 24
Person	Storage (horses)
• Firearm [3], missile, DMG 5	• Bedroll
• Knife, clinching, DMG 1	• Blanket, winter
• Sword, striking, DMG 2	• Book
• Full Plate [10] DR: 13	• Compass
• Shield [2] DR: 2	• Bağlama (Musical instrument)
• Opium (5), Vitality Active	• 27 gp
• Black Powder (10)	• Shovel
• Bullet (20)	• Tent, 3 man
• Rope, 50 ft.	• Water skin (1)
• Merchant Clothes	• Flint & steel
• 12 sp, 26 cp	• Lantern [2]
•	• Lamp Oil (10)
•	• Hardtack Rations (5)
•	• 
Property	Livestock
•	• Horse, war (Alzalam)
•	• Horse, pack (Haraj)
•	•
 
Skills
Name	Rank	Name	Rank
Accounting	_2_	Munitions	_4_
Armoury	_2_	Musical Instruments	_2_
Bargaining	_4_	Politics	_1_
Bow  †	_2_	Provisioning	_2_
Building	_3_	Read	_2_
Campaigning	_5_	Riding	_2_
Carpentry	_1_	Shield	_3_
Command	_2_	Siege	_5_
Cooking	_1_	Sing	_1_
Dance	_1_	Smuggling	_1_
Digging	_2_	Spear †	_2_
Extortion	_1_	Strategy	_1_
Field Dressing	_3_	Surveying	_1_
Firearms  †	_5_	Sword †	_4_
Firebuilding	_5_	Tactics	_1_
Foraging	_2_	Wrestling	_1_
Formation Fighting	_3_	Write	_2_
Fortifications	_5_		__
Gambling	_1_		__
Geometry	_2_		__
Grappling  †	_3_		__
Hauling	_2_		__
Heraldry	_1_		__
Knives †	_4_		__
Logic	_1_		__
Logistics	_1_		__
Management	_1_		__
Marching	_3_		__
Mathematics	_2_		__
Mending	_1_		__
			

Might
Weapon	Skill Rank	Range	Bonus Damage
Bow	2	Missile	+1
Firearms	5	Missile	+5
Spear	2	Extended	+1
Sword	4	Striking	+2
Knives	4	Clinching	+1
Wrestling	1	Clinching	+0
Grappling	3	Grappling	+0
Magic
Change
Magical Skill	Skill Rank	Word	Cost
		Generation	0
		Destruction	0
		Increase	0
		Decrease	0
		Alteration	0
		Movement	0
Substance	Quantity
Word	Cost	Word	Cost
		Color	0
			
			
			
Location	Duration
Word	Cost	Word	Cost
Sigil	0	Moment	0
			
			
			
			
	
Character:
Age:
Player: 		Inspiration:
Lifepaths
Lifepath	Time	Rank	Lifepath	Time	Rank
•		___	•		___
•		___	•		___
•		___	•		___
•		___	•		___
•		___	•		___
Beliefs
•
•
•
•
Traits	Instincts
•	•	•
•	•	•
•	•	•
•	•	•
•	•	•
•	•	•
Connections
Affiliation	Rank	Affiliation	Rank
   •	___	   •	___
   •	___	   •	___
   •	___	   •	___
			
	Stats	
Will: 	Strength:	Agility:
Intellect:	Fortitude:	Endurance:
	Attributes	
Morale:	__ / __	Vitality: 	__ / __	Stamina: 	__ / __
Armor:
Inventory __ / __
Person	Storage
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
•	•
Property	Livestock
•	•
•	•
•	•

 
Skills
Name	Rank	Name	Rank
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
	__		__
 
Might
Weapon	Skill Rank	Range	Bonus Damage
			
			
			
			
			
			
Magic
Change
Magical Skill	Skill Rank	Word	Cost
		Generation	0
		Destruction	0
		Increase	0
		Decrease	0
		Alteration	0
		Movement	0
Substance	Quantity
Word	Cost	Word	Cost
		Color	0
			
			
			
			
Location	Duration
Word	Cost	Word	Cost
Sigil	0	Moment	0
			
			
			
			
 
Support
Ataraxia was made possible due to the encouragement, feedback, editing, and assistance of my loving wife, friends, family, and the RPG community.
Contact email address
Ataraxia-RPG@protonmail.com
Discord link
https://discord.gg/ZPepA8T9NF

This game was made using the free fonts Crimson Text and Davida Becker.
Games that inspired this ruleset: 
	Ars Magica
	Burning Wheel
	Darkest Dungeon
	Dungeon Crawl Classics
	Dungeons & Dragons
	ICRPG
	Knave
	Old School Essentials
	Torchbearer






Copyright
MIT License: Copyright 2022 Ataraxia-RPG
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
The software is provided "as is", without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. In no event shall the authors or copyright holders be liable for any claim, damages or other liability, whether in an action of contract, tort or otherwise, arising from, out of or in connection with the software or the use or other dealings in the software.
 
 

